 Category Archives: Linked List  Given an unsorted doubly linked list containing n nodes. The problem is to remove duplicate nodes from the given list. Examples: Recommended: Please try your… Read More  Given a doubly linked list and a key x. The problem is to delete all occurrences of the given key x from the doubly linked… Read More  Given a sorted doubly linked list containing n nodes. The problem is removing duplicate nodes from the given list. Examples: Recommended: Please try your approach… Read More  Given k linked lists each of size n and each list is sorted in non-decreasing order, merge them into a single sorted (non-decreasing order) linked… Read More  Given a sorted doubly linked list of distinct nodes(no two nodes have the same data) and a value x. Count triplets in the list that… Read More  In previous article Skip List | Set 2 (Insertion) we discussed the structure of skip nodes and how to insert an element in the skip… Read More  Given a doubly linked list and a position n. The task is to delete the node at the given position n from the beginning.Initial doubly… Read More  Given a sorted doubly linked list and a value to insert, write a function to insert the value in sorted way.Initial doubly linked list Doubly… Read More  We have already discussed the idea of Skip list and how they work in Skip List | Set 1 (Introduction). In this article, we will… Read More  Given two linked lists(can be sorted or unsorted) of size n1 and n2 of distinct elements. Given a value x. The problem is to count… Read More  Given a linked list and a number n. Find the sum of the last n nodes of the linked list.Constraints: 0 <= n <= number… Read More  Given a singly linked list, we need to arrange the consonants and vowel nodes of it in such a way that all the vowel nodes… Read More  Given a singly linked list containing n nodes. Modify the value of first half nodes such that 1st node’s new value is equal to the… Read More  Given two Linked Lists, create union and intersection lists that contain union and intersection of the elements present in the given lists. Order of elements… Read More  Given two numbers represented by linked lists, write a function that returns the multiplication of these two linked lists. Examples: Input : 9->4->6 8->4 Output… Read More  We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !  