 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I have problem with display function how can i print all element if rear can be in somecases less than front for example in this code i try to enqueue 3 elements 1,2,3 then dequeue two elements which i mean here 1,2 after that i try to enque two elements 1,2 again finaly when i try to display elements i get nothing so what is the perfect way to display queue elements  Unrelated: this macro can produce untold havoc. At the very least uppercase the sucker to avoid accidentally turning stuff like into  Further explanation of @Azrael3000 's point: Because a circular buffer wraps around it is very easy to have a that is earlier in the backing array than the .  Well I can only recommend you to use a debugger and step through the code, it's an important skill to learn and will help you greatly in the future  2 Answers 2  I made a couple of changes to the output, see the positions of the . Its always good to give the next print statement a new line to write to if the current output is complete.  The biggest change, I put everything in a class. That way you don't have any global variables, which is to 99.999% a bad thing. Your code is very C like, so normally I would use as well and with you could easily make you buffer have arbitrary size.  TL;DR version: The hard part of making a circular buffer is telling the full condition from the empty condition because they are both unless you take extra steps like tracking the size or maintaining a or preventing from catching up to .  I like the latter approach because it makes for really simple code. I like writing simple code. You don't have to think as hard debugging it. You don't have to spend as much time writing it. You don't get bothered by the maintenance team supporting it. Simple code is only a problem when it's too simple and misses a case.  So I'm going for simple here.  Embedding comments where I feel it's appropriate because explanation is easier to understand when it's right up close to what it is explaining.  30.1k66 gold badges2929 silver badges4949 bronze badges  1  There is no need for the full flag. You can always set front or rear to -1, for example.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  