 Queue Data Structure  A Queue is a linear structure which follows a particular order in which the operations are performed. The order is First In First Out (FIFO). A good example of a queue is any queue of consumers for a resource where the consumer that came first is served first. The difference between stacks and queues is in removing. In a stack we remove the item the most recently added; in a queue, we remove the item the least recently added.  1. Language Foundation Courses [C++ / JAVA / Python ] Learn any programming language from scratch and understand all its fundamentals concepts for a strong programming foundation in the easiest possible manner with help of GeeksforGeeks Language Foundation Courses – Java Foundation | Python Foundation | C++ Foundation  2. Geeks Classes Live Get interview-centric live online classes on Data Structure and Algorithms from any geographical location to learn and master DSA concepts for enhancing your problem-solving & programming skills and to crack the interview of any product-based company – Geeks Classes: Live Session  3. Complete Interview Preparation Get fulfilled all your interview preparation needs at a single place with the Complete Interview Preparation Course that provides you all the required stuff to prepare for any product-based, service-based, or start-up company at the most affordable prices.  4. DSA Self Paced Start learning Data Structures and Algorithms to prepare for the interviews of top IT giants like Microsoft, Amazon, Adobe, etc. with DSA Self-Paced Course where you will get to learn and master DSA from basic to advanced level and that too at your own pace and convenience.  5. Company Specific Courses – Amazon, Microsoft, TCS & Wipro Crack the interview of any product-based giant company by specifically preparing with the questions that these companies usually ask in their coding interview round. Refer GeeksforGeeks Company Specific Courses: Amazon SDE Test Series, etc.  We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !  