 queue push() and pop() in C++ STL  The queue is a type of container which operates in a First In First Out (FIFO) type of arrangement. Elements are inserted at the back(end) and are deleted from the front of the queue.  queue::push()  push() function is used to insert an element at the back of the queue. This is an inbuilt function from C++ Standard Template Library(STL). This function belongs to the <queue> header file. The element is added to the queue container and the size of the queue is increased by 1.  Syntax :  Parameters: The value of the element to be inserted is passed as the parameter.  Result: Adds an element of value same as that of the parameter passed at the back of the queue.  Examples:  Errors and Exceptions:  Shows an error if the value passed doesn’t match the queue type.  Shows no exception throw guarantee if the parameter doesn’t throw any exception.  CPP  Output  Note: Here, output is printed on the basis of FIFO property.  queue::pop()  pop() function is used to remove an element from the front of the queue(oldest element in the queue). This is an inbuilt function from C++ Standard Template Library(STL). This function belongs to the <queue> header file. The element is removed from the queue container and the size of the queue is decreased by 1.  Syntax :  Parameters: No parameters are passed  Result: Removes the oldest element in the queue or basically the front element.  Examples:  Shows no exception throw guarantee if the parameter doesn’t throw any exception.  CPP  Output  Note: Here, output is printed on the basis of FIFO property.  Application: push() and pop()  Given a number of integers, add them to the queue and find the size of the queue without using the size function.  Algorithm: 1. Push the given elements to the queue container one by one. 2. Keep popping the elements of the queue until the queue becomes empty, and increment the counter variable. 3. Print the counter variable.  CPP  Output  Please write comments if you find anything incorrect, or you want to share more information about the topic discussed above.  Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here.  We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !  