 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  Really having trouble figuring out how to fix my code. I know there are obviously errors since it isn't running, but I'm unsure of what exactly they are, or how to go about fixing them. Any help/insight would be extremely appreciated. Thank you!!  Try to cut this code down to the important parts if you can - the parts that are producing the problem and are vitally related to it.  @JamesRoot how would I fix that?? By popping out all of the values from the deque at the end?  When you create the matrix, initialize it like . It'll initialize all the elements to .  1 Answer 1  The first obvious error is that you are using the wrong data structure. When you are implementing known concepts like matrix, BFS, you need to spend a good amount of time to think about how to implement inputs , outputs, data structures from the algorithm.  Some people like to use for matrices. I almost always uses for matrix data.  Second error is that you are mutating the algorithm. That thing is not BFS. It is not obvious at first.  You call multiple instance of BFS inside you BFS implementation. Using the same input vertices, whose elements are being modified. At the next loop, you dont start with a clean state.  You are flattening the algorithm, removing abstractions. What if you now have to use a adjency list? You have to modify the whole thing.  Third obvious error is coding style. You didnt do such a bad job because the vertices structure is self explanatory  I had to highlight all instances of to realizes that it stands for current vertex.  Using for a counter is not a great idea.  Taking input inside the algorithm implementation is a big nono.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  