 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I am in a fundamentals C++ college course and I am completely stuck on one of my assignments.  I need to read the input from a file that has a list of (1-25) names, sort the names alphabetically, and then output which people would be at the front of the line (ex:Amy) and the back of the line (ex:Zora). My professor is very particular and he strictly forbids us from using anything we haven't learned in class. We have only learned, cin, cout, if statements, loops, basic operators, fstream and basic string.  So how are we supposed to know what you've learned in class i.e. what is allowed or not? You better list every lesson you've had so far so we don't give you advice you haven't learned yet.  It would be difficult to advice you without knowing the topics that you have learned. Since it is assignment, use your skills to solve the problem in hand. There are many ways to solve a problem..but if you do it yourself. then it would be helpful for you to understand the basic programming constructs.  If you only need the first and last, you don't need to worry about sorting the whole list. A similar problem would be returning the min and max in a list of ints.  3 Answers 3  You should carefully consider your variable types and usage. Since you choose to use , you should get familiar with its basics from documentation.  Thoughtful variable naming can help you avoid some obvious programming bugs. For instance, you use  which should clearly be the string and not the int.  Plan out your usage of variables. Do you really need all the ints? You are sorting the names themselves alphabetically, not numbers.  Use assignments carefully.  indicates you are assigning the value of , i.e. 0 to , effectively replacing anything it was meant to contain before.  For the actual sorting, you have a choice to make between available functions, or if that's prohibited in your class constraints, classic string iteration. In case of the latter, the biggest lead would be the fact that a string can be iterated as a character array. Sorting then simply reduces to character comparison.  Last tip, which judging from your attempt, you probably had in mind already. Since you only need to output the first and last names in the queue, you need not sort the entire list, just maintain the first and last names.  I edited the code to reflect your suggestions, however, whenever it gets to the point where it reads the file, the code stops. I am sure the file is in the correct place because I have tested it with cout. Also we are only allowed to use the base string function. We havent learned anything in that link you posted.  if you just need max and mi just compare the strings and store in 2 separate variables  set the first name as min initially then traverse the entire file  compare with the initial name  if it is less replace else store in max  compare max with the incoming text if greater replace  Ask your professor to teach you about and then you can let the power of C++ work for you.  Edit: If you're not interested in the full sorted set of names and you just care about the first and last entries, you can simply set up iterators to those elements in your set and just dereference them to get their values.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  