 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  Create a recursive function for the binary search. This function accepts a sorted array and an item to search for, and returns the index of the item (if item is in the array), or returns -1 (if item is not in the array). Moreover, write a test program to test your function.  The deal here is that you write your own homework solutions, asking us about specific problems you are having with the code.  Ask your teacher to explain the problem in whatever language you normally communicate and then translate it for us.  I speak english she does not haha but i re-edited my question and posted what I have done so far thanks for the help with a newbie on this website  3 Answers 3  There's a child's game in the USA where one child picks a number between 1 and 10, and the other child has to guess that number. If they guess wrong, the first child says "higher" or "lower".  Most kids start out guessing randomly, and will take about 4-5 tries on average to succeed. I realized (and this is probably why I ended up in computer science), that the best thing to do is pick the mid point (5.5, so pick either 5 or 6. I'll go with 5.). Based on what they say ("higher" or "lower"), select a new range, either 1-4 or 6-10. Pick the number in the middle of that range (2 or 8). Keep splitting the range in half until you get the number.  That's a binary search on a sorted array (the sorted array being numbers from 1 to 10).  To implement that in code, just keep doing the same process described above. Pick the midpoint of the range, and create a new range based on the answer.  You could also google "recursive binary search" and voila!  EDIT- Wikipedia knows all (especially when it comes to cs):  The most straightforward implementation [of the binary search algorithm] is recursive, which recursively searches the subrange dictated by the comparison:  3,53922 gold badges2222 silver badges3333 bronze badges  1  No he did not know either =). I have been working on this thing for a week but we have yet to go over Binary Search's but as i speak we are going over them now so i hope to get some sort of hint to what the heck im supposed to do  Just use std::binary_search. Tell the tutor that function is actually implemented recursively in your_favorite_compiler.  41.8k1212 gold badges102102 silver badges174174 bronze badges  2  -1, this answer is deliberately obtuse. Tutors set tasks to enable learning, not to try to get their students to replace library functions. Perhaps maths students shouldn't be taught anything which can be done on a calculator?  @JBentley - so was the question in its initial form. Being aware of library functions doesn't hurt anyway.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  