 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I have a question where I represent a graph in terms of a 2D array. I have a sample as well, but I have no idea, how it works.... This is the graph I am given  And this is how they represent it using a 2D array  How does one translate to the other?  Also, this is a part of an implementation of Dijsktra's algorithm. Here is the code for your reference, it is taken from geeksforgeeks  If this is the graph given to me, for example, how would I represent it using a 2D array?  @AKSingh Thanks for noticing! I've edited it now. I did google it, but I couldn't find any resources which explains this properly. If you have any links which do, please send them here :) Thanks again!  @AKSingh Thank you! Also, I don't think the 2D array they've given as an input here is an adjacency matrix. They actually contain the weights don't they  For instance, consider the graph {{0,1,1,0},{0,0,01},{1,1,0,0},{1,1,1,0}}. How would this be represented?  3 Answers 3  In the example graph, there are 9 vertices. Therefore a 9x9 2D matrix is created, such that:  Row 1 corresponds to vertex 0, Row 2 corresponds to vertex 1 and so on  and  Column 1 corresponds to vertex 0, Column 2 corresponds to vertex 1 and so on  and the array is filled such that it contains the weight of the edges between node x and y. For example: Row 1 column 2 (map0) contains the weight of the edge between vertex 0 and vertex 1.  Therefore for a graph with n vertices, an nxn array needs to be created such that the location[x][y] in the array contains the weight between edge from x to y.  As for the example graph I had asked the solution for, this would be its corresponding 2D Matrix: It is a little big, because we create a 16x16 2D matrix  Can you now create matrix for the next graph that you have mentioned in the question?  @AKSingh It took me a while but i finally managed to create a solution for the graph imentioned!  @AKSingh Thank you for all your help! It's greatly appreciated! I hope you have a nice day :)  You can read it like a coordinate table. Every row represents a single vertex and every column value on the same row represents the distance to the Nth vertex.  Examples:  0, 1: first row, second column has the value of 4; which means vertex 0's distance to vertex 1 is 4.  1, 7: second row, 8th column has the value of 11; which means vertex 1's distance to vertex 7 is 11.  They have used an to represent an weighted undirected graphs. According to geeksforgeeks:  As the last two line state, adjacency matrix can be used to store a weighted graph which they have done in this case.  There might be few problems if you use adjacency matrix to represent weighted graphs. Here we use to represent no-edge between any two vertices. If there is any graph which has a weight in the graph, then a little change in the adjacency matrix will be needed since already represents no-edge.  In the comments you mention about another graph. That one, however, is not weighted. It is also not undirected graph since its not symmetric.  1,21011 gold badge55 silver badges1414 bronze badges  1  Thank you so much! if the graph is weighted, however, I will edit the question to mention the graph, How would it be represented?  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  