 Category Archives: Linked List  Given a linked list with a loop, the task is to find whether it is palindrome or not. You are not allowed to remove the… Read More  Given two linked lists, the task is to check whether the first list is present in 2nd list or not. Examples: Input : list1 = 10->20… Read More  Given a linked list and a value x, partition it such that all nodes less than x come first, then all nodes with a value… Read More  It was a very good experience to face interview at Qualcomm (Hyderabad-2016) I have attended the interview for a position of Software Engineer and My… Read More  Given pointer to the head node of a linked list, the task is to reverse the linked list. Examples: Input : Head of following linked… Read More  The test was held at 7 in the morning and then the shortlist was announced within an hour. The test included three questions: Given an… Read More  Given a sorted singly linked list and a value x, the task is to find pair whose sum is equal to x. We are not… Read More  Given a sorted doubly linked list of positive distinct elements, the task is to find pairs in a doubly-linked list whose sum is equal to… Read More  Like array and linked list, the unrolled Linked List is also a linear data structure and is a variant of a linked list. Why do… Read More  Given a Binary Tree, convert it to a Circular Doubly Linked List (In-Place). The left and right pointers in nodes are to be used as… Read More  Accolite visited our campus for recruiting Full time employees as well as interns. The process started with pre-placement talks and then we had to undergo… Read More  Round 1: ONLINE OBJECTIVE ROUND on HIREPRO platform This round comprised of 30 objective difficult and lengthy paragraph based aptitude questions to be solved in… Read More  Given two linked lists that represent two large positive numbers. Subtract the smaller number from the larger one and return the difference as a linked… Read More  Online test: Coding : Time : 90 minutes There were three coding questions as follows: A man starts from his house with a few pan… Read More  Round 0: (Written): 20 MCQs + 2 Coding Questions MCQs – Topics: OS ,DS ,DBMS – (Serialization etc.), Aptitude (simple puzzle kind.) Coding Questions: Given a… Read More  We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !  