 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I wrote a code that performs a BFS in a graph. But right after I give second input it crashes. What is the problem. I have tried to work around it, but it is causing the program to work more eratically.  Right after giving second(first pair of vertices of the graph) input... Windows says this program has stopped working. Please click here to see the question and sample inputs  The first line of the input contains two integers N and M. N is the number of buildings: we assume that our buildings are numbered 1,2,...,N. M is the number of pairs of buildings that the director lists as being close enough to jump from one to the other. Each of the next M lines, lines 2,...,M+1, contains a pair of integers representing a pair of buildings that are close. Line i+1 contains integers Ai and Bi, 1 ≤ Ai ≤ N and 1 ≤ Bi ≤ N, indicating that buildings Ai and Bi are close enough. The last line, line M+2 contains a pair of integers S and T, where S is the building from which the Hero starts his search and T is the building where the captive is held.  You should include example of the input you provided. Otherwise it's hard to guess what went wrong. I mean, real example of what you used, not artificial one.  Please include the sample input in the question itself (or, preferably hard-code the input, so we can just run the program to see the error). But really you should be debugging your program to find the problem.  1 Answer 1  In your code g is declared as a vector of vectors. Initially it contains 0 vectors of graphs.  You should add elements to it. Either by using push_back or .resize() with the number of vertices.  This is where your code breaks:  If you use .at you will get an exception. Ex:  A better approach is to use a "bag and adjacency lists" (C++11), if you don't have a compiler that supports C++11 use instead:  Thank you very much. the problem is solved. However, when I submit it on the online judge it says process aborted (SIGBART) what does it mean and why is this happening?  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  