 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  PROBLEM STATEMENT : Consider an array of numeric strings, , where each string is a positive number with anywhere from to digits. Sort the array's elements in non-decreasing (i.e., ascending) order of their real-world integer values and print each element of the sorted array on a new line.  "As input array consist strings of integers, to sort it in ascending order we need to compare evry element present in it but as integers are in the form of strings it need to be converted into Int data type.  if someone could suggest me where i am going wrong in my code. i would be exteremly grateful!  I am not sure whether there is some logical error in my code or not but but a runtime error " array IndexOutOfBounds" occures during execution of code.  PS:I have tried my level best and still can't able to figure out my Mistake. so plz do not downvote its a request.  Error: Exception in thread "main" java.lang.ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException: 5 at Solution.main(Solution.java:23)  You should practice good tabbing, it makes code very hard to read when it is tabbed inconsistently :)  Also copy paste is the devil when programming and often leads to half of the errors of this sort. At least for me, unless it's a massive amount of code that I reallllllly don't want to rewrite, try to avoid copy paste! Seems like the answers well answered your issue.  Case 1. In your original example the mistake here:  change to :  OUTPUT:  Case 2. Also, you can avoid so more transformations if it's an interesting. One of the way how you can simplify your code, for example:  1,68222 gold badges2020 silver badges3535 bronze badges  2  this code works fine for alpha numeric strings and sorts the array lexicographically.. However the Question is to sort the String array on the basis of integer values. for example according to your code 10 < 4.  Well done! The truth, your code works only in single direction, and you use so many resources for that. Try to use the fastest algorithms in the future.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  