 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  This is showing a run time error. I don't know whats wrong I believe the sorting is correct It's selection sort The structure of my node is:  Your algorithm is an unstable variant of selection sort. Its time-complexity is O(N^2). Try and implement merge sort, a much more efficient algorithm with worst-case time-complexity of O(N.log(N)).  Welcome to Stack Overflow. Please note that the preferred way of saying 'thanks' around here is by up-voting good questions and helpful answers (once you have enough reputation to do so), and by accepting the most helpful answer to any question you ask (which also gives you a small boost to your reputation). Please see the About page and also How do I ask questions here? and What do I do when someone answers my question?  2 Answers 2  copies data pointed to by to an someplace (it is undefined behavior) as is an uninitialized pointer.  122k1212 gold badges114114 silver badges220220 bronze badges  3  thanks ,swapping the pointers works but I'm confused-what is wrong with swapping the data?.  Three reasons: any string might not have the space to store a longer string; and you have not allocated any memory to your scratch space ; and execution time.  This statement only create a pointer. There is no memory is associated with that;  simply copies the the content in the memory pointed by src to memory point by dest  In your case str not pointing to any memory location;  since str pointing to nothing, this statement endup with an error because strcpy fails to copy to str  I'm afraid is not an option because , the maximum value of type , is much too large, likely larger than available memory and definitely too much for an automatic variable.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  