 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I have just started a school project, and that project I need to use Linked List. Also, I need search some data inside of Linked List.  I have been doing some research on search algorithms. I looked at :  (recursive one) - looks hard to implements-  - complexity already O(N)  -based on Binary Search-  Which algorithm can I use in the most efficient way? Also, the search algorithm complexity must be lower than O(N). I am open for any suggestion  Details of my Assignments: They want us to write basic facebook on a console. it will do Add friend, block friend, liked that stuff.  There will linked list and contains name, surname, gender and date of birth. Moreover, these data will comes from File. Before you load the data to linked list, it will be sorted, then will load to linked list.  Assignments have 5 backbone functions : Insert (basically add people to linked list and sort it), search (search the specific person and says complexity must be O(logN), Print, Block people and print blocked person,  80622 gold badges1313 silver badges3232 bronze badges  11  1  I think binary and exponential search would not work as they both need sorted array and in linked list you cannot access a element by its index .  Most people do linear search on linkedlist. It would be easiest to implement as all you do is a simple while loop until the next is not null....  @pulankit Yeah, I tried to implement but it does not work, or I could not do it. Other than these three, do you have another opinion ?  In linked list traversing is the only option you have, so i think you only have one option linear search, btw its very easy to implement though could u share your peace of code which didnt work.  1 Answer 1  Keep in mind that a standard linked list is not random access. The only way to traverse such a list is linear.  Hence, it is not possible to use random-access algorithms like binary search on a linked list. You must do a sequential == linear search, and your worst-case complexity is O(n).  4,89522 gold badges1212 silver badges2929 bronze badges  5  All of you are right, but they want us to write O(logN) complexity search algorithm. I will look at it more. Probably they want us to use some kind of dive and conquer algorithms  I don’t understand how they expect you to do an O(logn) algorithm on an O(n) structure. Is this really a skip-list or something?  Well, your assignment is, unfortunately, non-sequitur. You are being asked to use a linked list, but search with a random-access complexity. I recommend sending an email to your professor asking for clarification.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  