 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I have a BFS algorithm error. Have tried to debug with the but I don't understand why I get this.  Can anyone tell me why i get a error with the code below. Does it depend on the compiler that you use how the pointers are addressed? As there is an invalid pointer error in the code  Run your program in a debugger, the debugger will stop at the location of the crash. Walk up the function call stack to your code (if it's not there already) and the edit your question to only include the relevant parts of the code, plus values of involved variables, unless you can figure it out yourself of course.  @SouravGhosh "Have tried to debug with the gdb bu don't understand why I get this. ..."  @SouravGhosh No problem. Most probably the OP just uses the debugger wrong, similarly as here ;-) ...  Thanks for the suggestions guys, I am working on it. But, I don't understand a negative count for my question. I understand there are many BFS algorithms online but this seems to be using more pointers and I preferred it to pursue further despite of it.  2 Answers 2  There is an uninitialized array in the stack frame of . Only and become initialized. At the end of main it is iterated over the whole array and is called in on a garbage value.  "Does it depend on the compiler that you use how the pointers are addressed?"  No, it doesn't depend on the compiler primarily. As Joachim pointed out in his comment:  To see the real source of the error, you should just step up the stack trace, and check out how all the variables and parameters were actually set.  Most likely you've been calling some undefined behavior, due to missing, or wrong variable initializations.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  