 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I have just started programming in Golang and want to sort an array of maps. I have an array of maps. Let's call it example_array.  ]  Now I want to sort this array using value of key so the example_array should be modified to ->  If I sort the original array using value of key , the original array should be modified to ->  How can I sort these array of maps in Golang. Please help!  1,25533 gold badges1818 silver badges3434 bronze badges  8  2  Learn to use the package. In addition to the package documentation, there are a lot of examples and explanations online for you to read.  @jrefior I have already checked the sort package but couldnt find an appropriate solution for this. Please help!  Then you might not understand the power of sort.Sort yet. For example, do you understand the Wrapper Example in the package documentation?  Or perhaps you're not really trying to sort an array of maps. The structure of your code excerpts is not completely clear as to data structure. You could improve your question by posting a  While you say you want to sort an array of maps, the operations you describe look more like sorting an array of arrays of maps. Are those arrays in an array, or are they in something else?  1 Answer 1  Your data looks like it could be easily represented as a slice of maps of type . Since you didn't provide any Go code in your question, I cannot be sure of the data types, so I will assume it is a slice of maps of type in this answer.  use with a custom Less function, which can be provided as a closure. In this case no methods are needed  Less reports whether the element with index should sort before the element with index .  Using a closure allows you to reference your data structure in the function body even though it is not part of the parameter list.  Here's a runnable example that sorts a slice of values matching the data in your question:  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  