 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  If I have a Hashtable and I want to sort it by the value, i.e: integer in a descending order. How can I do this and be able to print through all of the key - value pair?  Oh I wasn't talking about the capitalization -- I just never knew that one existed. :)  @Matt Ball - he might have been using Java ME, which doesn't have the Java Collections framework ... in some profiles. But apparently not, since he's accepted a solution that depends on and .  6 Answers 6  29.9k2121 gold badges8080 silver badges124124 bronze badges  2  1  This will sort in ascending order, not descending order. o1 and o2 should be swapped in the return of the compare function.  throws classcast exception on the return line for a Hashtable<String,Integer> and an ArrayList<Map.Entry<String,Integer>> String cannot be cast to Integer. What's wrong? cannot get it.  Hashtables are not sorted. So you need to make a copy of the hash table's key set, sort it, and retrieve the values from the hashtable by iterating through the keys in your sorted list.  Or use a sorted hash table substitute, such as TreeMap; that would avoid having to make the copy of the key set.  9,09911 gold badge2929 silver badges3333 bronze badges  1  the value is the one which is going to be sorted.. so I need to get the key from the value... is it even possible?  If you really mean "how do I do this", then the answer is to just add all of them to a and then iterate through it, or add all of them to an and then sort it.  If you mean "how do I do this efficiently", I believe the answer is that it's not possible to get any more efficient than above.  195k115115 gold badges494494 silver badges842842 bronze badges  2  you mean add all of the value in the hashtable to a TreeMap? if that's so then how can I print the key along with the value?  You add the values to the TreeMap using the keys already in the hashtable, then you iterate through the TreeMap's keys and print each key and value.  SortedMap allows you to either specify a comparator, or if not use the natural ordering of elements, of which the inverse will be fine for Integers. The following prints in descending sorted order:  This answer is wrong... this explains how to sort by key. The original question was how to sort by value.  Both are implementation for sorting an hashmap based on value in ascending or descending order  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  