 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I have written a program in python, where I have used a hash table to read data from a file and then add data in the last column of the file corresponding to the values in the 2nd column of the file. for example, for all entries in column 2 with same values, the corresponding last column values will be added.  Now I have implemented the above successfully. Now I want to sort the table in descending order according to last column values and print these values and the corresponding 2nd column (key) values. i am not able to figure out on how to do this. Can anyone please help ?  pmt txt file is of the form  and so on...  So, for example, for number 2 in column 2, i have added all data of last column corresponding to all numbers '2' in the 2nd column. So, this process will continue for the next set of numbers lie 4, 5 ,etc in column 2.  Please provide a brief example of the contents of . There is likely a much better way to do this than what you've implemented, but there's only so much we can do without seeing example input. Also please indicate whether you are using Python 2 or 3.  pmt txt file is of the form 0.418705 2 3 1985 20 0 0.420657 4 5 119 3849 5 0.430000 2 3 1985 20 500 and so on... So, for example, for number 2 in column 2, i have added all data of last column corresponding to all numbers '2' in the 2nd column. So, this process will continue for the next set of numbers lie 4, 5 ,etc in column 2. I'm using python 3  Will you please edit that into your question, properly formatted? (4 leading spaces each line for monospace and gray background.)  2 Answers 2  It sounds like you want to use the function with a parameter that gets the value from the key/value tuple:  You could also use from the module, rather than a lambda function:  It needs to be sorted based on the values of the last column obtained after addition corresponding to column 2 entry, i.e need to sort source_ip[s_ip] in descending order, and print the sorted values and the corresponding keys.  @user3547134: If you want descending order rather than ascending, add a argument to , in addition to the function.  Can anyone please tell how to write these values into a file instead of the terminal, because the on the terminal, I'm not able to see all values, as there is a lot of stuff in the txt file  Now for the sorted columns, for the 1st 3 entries, I need to take the corresponding next column value (value) and divide it by the total values in that column (total of all values). I tried using remove command, so that removing each max entry and then again finding max value of whole thing (to get 2nd max value) and then 3 rd max value. But remove does'nt work with the hash tables  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  