 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I have a program with a queue of strings. The requirements changed and now the output must be in alphabetical order. I am trying to sort the queue but am getting the error "no matching function call to and  What's the best way to sort it? Would it be better to change from a queue to a vector or some other structure? The thing is the only operations needed is to add to end and remove from end.  Also I'm using Netbeans and it only displays the compile error messages when I hover over the red x so how can I copy and paste the message?  EDIT: I now understand queues can't be sorted. So what then is the best data structure to use? It only needs to be added to from one end, sorted and red linearally (from start to end)?  'Sorting queue' is a contradiction in terms. You can have a 'priority queue' which orders itself, but sorting a queue that already exists violates both concepts.  @northerner see the comments on the accepted answer by Jerry: , . It's unfortunate that the answer itself has not been updated to reflect that.  2 Answers 2  This is . It has no and - that would defeat the purpose of the wrapper. Choose instead or use .  has no and , the order is always FIFO by definition.  Choose instead, it can be sorted and, unlike , has and offers better performance for FIFO operations.  70.3k2121 gold badges168168 silver badges224224 bronze badges  1  Is there a place to refer to compare the performance of operations on different data structures? I'm looking for something like this. For example when you say dequeue is faster than vector for FIFO operations, do you speak from experience or is this specified in documentation somewhere?  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  