 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I posted a question about this last night but am still struggling. I need to sort a list of students from a text file first by name (in this format last name, first name), and then by test scores. I won't know how many students will be in the text file, other than that there is less than 100. I have to use the compareTo method (which I think I did correctly) and an array (I don't think I'm using this correctly). I have been messing around with this for literally hours on end and I just don't seem to get it. The text book really doesn't seem to be helping me any. How can I get my app class to print sorted student names/grades?  Other spefications are to get the average of the scores and make a comment next to any score below average. Those, however, I can work on after I can get the sorting straightened out.  Shouldn't be declared outside the loop? And am I blind or is never incremented? ... and why are we sorting the array each time we read a Student rather than once at the end?  When counter is declared outside of the loop and I run the program I get a list of errors. I don't know what you mean by sorting the array each time a student is read?  Thank you, for the advice. I still can't get the program to run correctly. When I run it I am getting this output: Welcome to the Student Scores Application. Student 0 Andrea Steelman 95 [LCH11AS8App.app$Student;@7ba65cf7 1Student 0 Joel Murach 92 [LCH11AS8App.app$Student;@ba0abea 1Student 0 Doug Lowe 82 [LCH11AS8App.appStudent;@6176959c 1Student 0 Mike Murach 93 [LCH11AS8App.app$Student;@305866c1 1  @newB: I updated your program to correctly read the students, sort them and print them. Currently, its sorting in the ascending order. If you have any questions, let me know.  Thank you so much. The only issue is that it isn't sorting alphabeticallly... I see it sorting by name but not by score.. This is my output... Welcome to the Student Scores Application. Steelman, Andrea : 95 Murach, Joel : 92 Lowe, Doug : 82 Murach, Mike : 93 Steelman, Andrea : 95 Lowe, Doug : 82 Murach, Joel : 92 Murach, Mike : 93  Since this is homework I'm not giving you the full answer ... But here's the general idea of what you should be working towards ...  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  