 5 Best Languages for Competitive Programming  Needless to say, Competitive Programming is one of the most crucial and popular aspects of a programmer’s journey. Though, all the programmers are strongly recommended to participate in such coding challenges to enhance their coding skills and to get various ravishing prizes, rewards, and other career opportunities. Meanwhile, there’s a question that often comes to the mind of individuals before getting into the Competitive Programming world — Which is the best programming language for Competitive Programming? And truly, as there are numerous preferred programming languages available, it becomes quite difficult to find out the relevant and worthwhile one!!  Before moving further, let’s take a brief introduction to Competitive Programming. Competitive Programming concerns with the coding competitions or challenges where you’re required to showcase your programming skills under different specified constraints such as minimum time, reduced complexity, etc. Indeed, Competitive Programming is the best way to analyze your programming skills through competing with the various other profound programmers across the world & gain the utmost exposure to real-time programming. Moreover, there are numerous renowned platforms that organize various coding challenges for competitive programming such as TopCoder, CodeChef, and many more.  https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=deaQG10LWR8  Now, let’s get back to the main concern — how to figure out the best language for Competitive Programming? Here, in this article, we’ll let you know about these 5 most recommended programming languages that you can consider to start your Competitive Programming journey:  Indeed, C++ is one of the most recommended and widely used programming languages for Competitive Programming. C++, developed by Bjarne Stroustrup, is a relatively faster programming language in comparison to various other renowned languages. Meanwhile, as the execution time plays a crucial role in Competitive Programming, hence C++ is the most preferred language by the programmers. The general-purpose programming language consists of a rich library known as Standard Template Library that makes it easier for the programmers to do efficient & effective programming. The Standard Template Library includes C++ template classes that offer various data structures such as lists, trees, stacks, graphs, arrays, etc. Moreover, the language supports OOPS (Object-Oriented Programming) features as well to help you out while solving real-time problems in coding challenges.  Here comes another most recommended programming language for Competitive Programming — JAVA. The object-oriented language, developed in 1995, works on Write Once, Run Anywhere concept which implies that the compiled Java code can be executed on any platform, that supports Java, without recompilation. Meanwhile, JAVA comes up with a rich library set such as BigInteger class used for calculation based on large integers or Regular Expressions, Geometry Library to handle geometrical problems, and many more. Furthermore, various other worthwhile features supported by JAVA such as better exception handling, Java Containers, etc. make it one of the most preferred languages for Competitive Programming. Moreover, the language is easy to learn and you can start to learn JAVA from various online & offline resources.  Python gives you numerous reasons to pick it up for your next Competitive Programming contest. The high-level programming language is quite easy to learn and implement with having a very simple syntax. Moreover, the language has an extensive library & function support which somehow increases the efficiency of programmers in coding competitions. Furthermore, the language has several other worthwhile features as well such as no limit on the integer value, functions can return more than one value, code indentation, robust input statements, flexible number of arguments to a function, etc. makes Python a suitable language for Competitive Programming. Also, the language has wide use in various trending domains such as Machine Learning, Artificial Intelligence, Data Science, and many more.  Ruby is also one of the most sought-after programming languages in the competitive programming world. It is an object-oriented programming language that is very user-friendly, flexible, and easy to learn. Meanwhile, Ruby is a dynamic programming language and is based on several other programming languages such as Perl, Smalltalk, Lisp, Ada, Smalltalk, and Eiffel. Though, Ruby is an interpreted scripting language so it is quite slow in comparison to other compiled languages and this aspect gives the upper hand to other languages while considering the best programming language for competitive language. Moreover, apart from competitive programming, Ruby is also used in a wide range of domains such as Web Applications, Database Solutions, Data Science, and many more.  Last but not least — Kotlin. Kotlin, introduced in 2011, is a general-purpose programming language that supports object-oriented programming paradigms along with functional programming features. The language is easy to learn and provides access to a rich library including various data structures, collections, etc. Moreover, while programming in Kotlin, you can use existing Java Frameworks & Libraries as well. The languages offer various crucial features that can be beneficial during competitive programming such as Type Inference, Smart Casts, avoids the Null Pointer Exception, and many more. Furthermore, as Kotlin emphasizes more readable syntax, so it makes it easier to review the code, and also you can easily learn and understand the language efficiently through various online and offline resources.  So, these are several best programming languages for competitive programming that can be taken into consideration. Although, apart from opting for a relevant & worthwhile programming language, you’re required to emphasize more on Algorithm building and Data Structures as well. Though, you can easily get command over Data Structures & Algorithms through various prominent online resources such as GeeksforGeeks, etc. Now, what are you waiting for? Choose a relevant programming language, prepare yourself, and participate in the upcoming prestigious Coding Challenges!!  Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here.  We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !  