 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I am trying to understand what is the space complexity of DFS and BFS in a graph. I understand that the space complexity of BFS while using adjacency matrix would be where is the number of vertices.  By using the adjacency list space complexity would be decreased in average case i.e . But in the worst case, it would be . Even including Queue, it would be (neglecting the lower value)  But, what is the scenario with DFS? Even if we use the adjacency matrix/list. Space Complexity would be O(v^2). But that seems to be a very loose bound, that too without considering stack frames.  Am I correct, regarding the complexities? If, not what are the space complexities of BFS/DFS? and while calculating Space Complexity for DFS, do we consider stack frame or not?  what is the tight bound of space complexity, for BFS and DFS for graph  1 Answer 1  As shown in Pseudocode 1, the space consumption of the adjacency matrix or adjacency list is not in the BFS algorithm. Adjacency matrix or adjacency list is the input to the BFS algorithm, thus it cannot be included in the calculation of space complexity. So does DFS.  Pseudocode 1 Input: A graph Graph and a starting vertex root of Graph  Output: Goal state. The parent links trace the shortest path back to root  The space complexity of BFS can be expressed as O(|V|), where |V| is the cardinality of the set of vertices. For in the worst case, you would need to hold all vertices in the queue.  The space complexity of DFS depends on the implementation. A non-recursive implementation of DFS with worst-case space complexity O(|E|) is shown as followed, where E is the cardinality of the set of edges:  Breadth-first search is complete, while depth-first search is not.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  