 Stack Data Structure  Stack is a linear data structure which follows a particular order in which the operations are performed. The order may be LIFO(Last In First Out) or FILO(First In Last Out).  There are many real-life examples of a stack. Consider an example of plates stacked over one another in the canteen. The plate which is at the top is the first one to be removed, i.e. the plate which has been placed at the bottommost position remains in the stack for the longest period of time. So, it can be simply seen to follow LIFO(Last In First Out)/FILO(First In Last Out) order.  1. Language Foundation Courses [C++ / JAVA / Python ] Learn any programming language from scratch and understand all its fundamentals concepts for a strong programming foundation in the easiest possible manner with help of GeeksforGeeks Language Foundation Courses – Java Foundation | Python Foundation | C++ Foundation  2. Geeks Classes Live Get interview-centric live online classes on Data Structure and Algorithms from any geographical location to learn and master DSA concepts for enhancing your problem-solving & programming skills and to crack the interview of any product-based company – Geeks Classes: Live Session  3. Complete Interview Preparation Get fulfilled all your interview preparation needs at a single place with the Complete Interview Preparation Course that provides you all the required stuff to prepare for any product-based, service-based, or start-up company at the most affordable prices.  4. DSA Self Paced Start learning Data Structures and Algorithms to prepare for the interviews of top IT giants like Microsoft, Amazon, Adobe, etc. with DSA Self-Paced Course where you will get to learn and master DSA from basic to advanced level and that too at your own pace and convenience.  5. Company Specific Courses – Amazon, Microsoft, TCS & Wipro Crack the interview of any product-based giant company by specifically preparing with the questions that these companies usually ask in their coding interview round. Refer GeeksforGeeks Company Specific Courses: Amazon SDE Test Series, etc.  Please write comments if you find anything incorrect, or you want to share more information about the topic discussed above.  We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !  