 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I want to plot trees using Python. Decision trees, Organizational charts, etc. Any library that helps me with that?  6 Answers 6  I develop ETE, which is a python package intended, among other stuff, for programmatic tree rendering and visualization. You can create your own layout functions and produce custom tree images:  It has a focus on phylogenetics, but it can actually deal with any type of hierarchical tree (clustering, decision trees, etc.)  Is it not available for Windows? Your install guide doesn't have a windows section and if I run the conda install line, it doesn't find the package.  Literally the only package I found that could be ed and it would run out of the box.  networkx + matplotlib + graphviz gives you the most flexibility and power, but you need to install a lot.  If you want a quick solution, try:  Install Graphviz.  Then you install pydot, because pydot already does this for you. Then you can use networkx to "drive" pydot.  6,74311 gold badge2929 silver badges2929 bronze badges  5  NetworX looks pretty good. The only thing is that I require an external library to generate image files. Can I generate an arc between nodes?  NetworkX. Graphviz is famous historically for reading the "DOT" files, but IMO NetworkX, Ete, and iGraph produce far better results by modern standards, and don't require mixing another language with Python.  10.3k88 gold badges7373 silver badges8282 bronze badges  1  1  Highly appreciate your input, easy to use indeed. Also, there is a nice method once you've built a tree to generate graphviz format of the tree: . So you can use it then in any online or offline tool.  Plotly can plot tree diagrams using igraph. You can use it offline these days too. The example below is intended to be run in a Jupyter notebook  49811 gold badge77 silver badges1111 bronze badges  4  I get an incomprehensible error message from this: I do not know what to upgrade: , , or something else. I have the latest versions of everything. Rewriting your code to refer to didn't work. didn't work: has no member. etc. :(  I got this to work, but it required setting up an account with plotly, so I looked for free alternatives. python-igraph (NOT the same as igraph) has some plotting capability in it igraph.org/python/doc/tutorial/tutorial.html. It's hard to install; on Mac OS X, after a painful trip down the rabbit hole, "brew install cairo" turned out to be necessary and sufficient.  For a 2021 solution, I wrote a Python wrapper of the TreantJS library. The package creates an HTML file with a tree visualization. The user can optionally invoke R's library to render high-res screenshots of the trees. The package is quite new, so any PRs, bug reports, or feature requests in the issues would be much appreciated! See: https://github.com/Luke-Poeppel/treeplotter.  The package has some annoying installation requirements (see ), so I wrote a MacOS installation helper (tested on Catalina and Big Sur). Any tips on reducing these constraints would also be welcome.  It's expirmental, but Google has a GraphViz api. It's convenient if you just want to quickly visualize a graph, but don't want to install any software.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  