 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I'm creating a data structure that uses nested dictionaries and a list at the lowest level. Here's a sample of my data:  The data structure I have in mind looks like -- that is, . The plan is for there to be a new array per combination.  However, when I try to update the array, it seems that it is linked to all lower levels of the structure. That is, after the third row has been processed, have the following situation:  ... whereas what I'm expecting to see is:  Here's the code I'm attempting to use:  However, this results in basically the same array being referenced by each lowest level of the structure.  I believed that a was a keyed data structure? Could I use it instead of an array?  sure, collection object support method, but key is optional. so, you could omit it. In your case it would be much simplier to use collection instead array  If you have an array in a dictionary you must pull it out of the dictionary before you can modifiy it. Then put it back in.  @TimWilliams when you say "pull it out" re: an array, what method are you talking about? I tried copying the array to a temp. array, and then inserting the temp. array, but had the same end result. Is there a method to set the array to NULL or similar?  2 Answers 2  If you have an array in a dictionary you must pull it out of the dictionary before you can modifiy it. Then put it back in.  131k88 gold badges8686 silver badges107107 bronze badges  2  Okay, I think I follow what you've done. But what happens if you want to extend the array? That is, it is supposed to be a dynamic array, that grows/contracts depending on the number of entries in the purchased column.  Once it's outside of the dictionary you can use it like a regular array - if you want to extend it then that shouldn't be a problem.  Dictionary contains sets of pairs. Also, the keys list in Dictionary has to be unique. Within the top-level dictionary containing the relationship between Country & Customer, neither country nor customer is unique by that standard. So, I don't think dictionary is appropriate. Maybe you can try .  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  