 Tag Archives: BFS  Given a binary tree and target node. By giving the fire to the target node and fire starts to spread in a complete tree. The… Read More  Given a connected graph with N vertices. The task is to select k(k must be less than or equals to n/2, not necessarily minimum) vertices… Read More  Given an integer X and an array arr[] of length N consisting of positive integers, the task is to pick minimum number of integers from… Read More  Breadth First Search BFS stands for Breadth First Search is a vertex based technique for finding a shortest path in graph. It uses a Queue… Read More  Given two strings s1 and s2 of same length, the task is to count the minimum number of pairs of characters (c1, c2) such that… Read More  Given a 2d-matrix mat[][] consisting of positive integers, the task is to find the minimum number of steps required to reach the end of the… Read More  Given an integer array arr[] of length N consisting of positive integers, the task is to minimize the number of steps required to reach the… Read More  Given a boolean 2D matrix, find the number of islands. A group of connected 1s forms an island. For example, the below matrix contains 5… Read More  Given a binary tree, write a function that returns true if the tree satisfies below property:For every node, data value must be equal to the… Read More  Given a binary grid of order r * c and an initial position. The task is to find the minimum distance from the source to… Read More  Given a connected graph with N vertices and M edges. The task is to print the lexicographically smallest BFS traversal of the graph starting from… Read More  Given an adjacency list representation of a directed graph, the task is to find the path from source to every other node in the graph… Read More  Given an N X M matrix, where ai, j = 1 denotes the cell is not empty, ai, j = 0 denotes the cell is… Read More  Given an N-ary tree, print all the levels with odd and even number of nodes in it. Examples: For example consider the following tree 1… Read More  Given a directed graph, check whether the graph contains a cycle or not. Your function should return true if the given graph contains at least… Read More  We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !  