 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I have been asked to write a binary search program with some specific conditions. I have to pass the lower bound, upper bound, pointer to the array, and the search element. the program I have written gave me warnings. I am not able to correct the error in the program. Please point me where I am wrong.  I get this warning when I compile this.  when I remove the line , then I get the following error messages:  when I run the program, the program takes the value of the search element and terminates after some time. the control is not transferred to the binary search function.  Why did you introduce the array? You're supposed to search in (and not modify it). You're also supposed to return the position, not or .  Use an initializer list for testing purposes. If you manually enter the data each time, it's easy to make a mistake and enter unsorted data, or just different data each time with makes debugging difficult. Besides, it makes debugging boring when you spend most of yor time entering stuff.  3 Answers 3  The original array is defined inside main() and a separate array is defined in BinarySearch(). The pointer p is assigned to point to array defined in main.  The pointer p is passed in BinarySearch() and then the assignment  is infact changing the pointer contents to first element of new array defined in BinarySearch(). The new array is uninitialized and hence the appropriate compiler warnings.  is pointer to data (the data is declared in main: )  is the value to check against  If is the pointer to your data ,there is no need (and it's actually wrong, because it will not search the data you want) in declaring a new inside the function, nor in , since already points to the right address... Remove those, and use instead of  Both previous answers seem valid, but the quick correction to the problem would be to revise:  to  Then update all references to a in function BinarySearch to p.  There is no need to allocate an entire array a when you are simply reading data from the array pointed to by p.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  