 Category Archives: Dynamic Programming  Given two integers ‘n’ and ‘sum’, find count of all n digit numbers with sum of digits as ‘sum’. Leading 0’s are not counted as… Read More  Given a grid with each cell consisting of positive, negative or no points i.e, zero points. We can move across a cell only if we… Read More  A number is non-decreasing if every digit (except the first one) is greater than or equal to previous digit. For example, 223, 4455567, 899, are… Read More  Recently makemytrip visited our Campus and I got selected in recruitment drive.The placement drive consisted of 4 rounds. Round1: MCQ and coding round It was… Read More  Round 1(Written): There was a technical online test in the first round. 20 questions were to be done in 30 minutes.Questions were basically from data… Read More  Round-1: Online test There were 2 sections – Aptitude and Coding Section A- 20 MCQ’s on General Aptitude. Section B- There were 3 coding questions.… Read More  Given a matrix of characters. Find length of the longest path from a given character, such that all characters in the path are consecutive to… Read More  Given a “2 x n” board and tiles of size “2 x 1”, count the number of ways to tile the given board using the… Read More  A number can always be represented as a sum of squares of other numbers. Note that 1 is a square and we can always break… Read More  Given a value V, if we want to make a change for V cents, and we have an infinite supply of each of C… Read More  Given a matrix where every cell represents points. How to collect maximum points using two traversals under following conditions?Let the dimensions of given grid be… Read More  First Round : 1) 30 Aptitiude questions. 2) 2-Coding questions 2-a) Find Missing And Repeating 2-b) Word Break Problem 32 people were selected for second round. Second… Read More  1st round (Written Test) It was an online test of 90 minutes and was conducted on Hackerearth. It consisted of 10 MCQ’s and 3 coding… Read More  Given a number line from -infinity to +infinity. You start at 0 and can go either to the left or to the right. The condition… Read More  Given two strings str1 and str2, the task is to find the length of the shortest string that has both str1 and str2 as subsequences.… Read More  We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !  