 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I write the code from adding vertex into a graph and update the weight of edge and then find the minimum spanning tree. I think that I have done it but there seems to be some error in it but I cannot find it out.The system using Valgrind and indicate that "invalid write of size 4" and "invalid read of size 4 " in the call of MST, but I think it work fine.The whole error of Valgrind is https://docs.google.com/document/d/1_AhOdDkyZGNTBVHspyGtnSQoU1tYkm0nVA5UABmKljI/edit?usp=sharing  The following code is called by like  and the result will be (1,2) (2,4) (3,4).  and call  and the result will be (1,2) (1,3) (2,4).  It is sent to a system to execute and it will be called like above but in a lot of time cycle above.  1,51333 gold badges1818 silver badges4242 bronze badges  4  I suggest that you fire up your debugger. This is a critical tool for every aspiring programmer to learn.  In the Valgrind output, you have the file name and the line numbers of where the problem is. Look at that first. Or at least please indicate where in the source you provided that the problems are.  it says HOMEWORK::GetMST(std::vector<std::pair<unsigned int, unsigned int>, std::allocator<std::pair<unsigned int, unsigned int> > >&) (code.cpp:29)the line isn't the code and the above code seems right.  Also you might have potential access beyond the limits of the vector. For example in you access without checking that is a valid index. Incidentally it also happens to be line 29 if the code showed is the full file of .  1 Answer 1  I think the issue is how you're setting up parent pointers. Note that you've set up as  This creates one entry in the array for each edge in the graph, plus one extra one. However, each node has a parent, not each edge, and the number of nodes in a graph can be bigger than the number of edges plus one. For example, suppose you're given this set of edges:  This graph clearly has six nodes in it (numbered 1 ... 6), but your code would only make space for 4 entries in .  Try changing your code so that you set to be the proper size, probably by finding the maximum and minimum numbered node in the list of edges and sizing the array appropriately. Alternatively, consider using a , which is more flexible if the vertex numbers don't contiguously begin at 0.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  