 Category Archives: Dynamic Programming  Given a number n, find count of all numbers from 1 to n that have 4 as a digit.Examples : Input: n = 5 Output:… Read More  Given a number n, find the sum of digits in all numbers from 1 to n. Examples: Input: n = 5 Output: Sum of digits in… Read More  Round 0 – Second max element in BST Sort an array of integers such that – – All odd numbers are in left side and… Read More  I got a chance to participate in walk-in drive at Paytm Headquarters. Went through the following process. Written test: It contained 20 objective questions having… Read More  Given an input number of sections and each section has 2 plots on either sides of the road. Find all possible ways to construct buildings… Read More  In daily share trading, a buyer buys shares in the morning and sells them on the same day. If the trader is allowed to make… Read More  Written MCQ There were 20 multiple choice questions to be done in 30 minutes time and most of the technical questions were from geeksquiz ,… Read More  This is a famous interview question asked in Google, Paytm and many other company interviews. Below is the problem statement. Imagine you have a special keyboard… Read More  There are N stations on route of a train. The train goes from station 0 to N-1. The ticket cost for all pair of stations… Read More  A vertex cover of an undirected graph is a subset of its vertices such that for every edge (u, v) of the graph, either ‘u’… Read More  Consider a game where a player can score 3 or 5 or 10 points in a move. Given a total score n, find number of… Read More  Given a string of lowercase ASCII characters, find all distinct continuous palindromic sub-strings of it. Examples: Input: str = "abaaa" Output: Below are 5 palindrome… Read More  Given N jobs where every job is represented by following three elements of it. Start Time Finish Time Profit or Value Associated (>= 0) Find… Read More  Round1: Online Coding Round There were 4 coding question. Was asked to answer 2 out of 4. 1) Given a list of N coins, their… Read More  Given a string ‘str’ of digits, find the length of the longest substring of ‘str’, such that the length of the substring is 2k digits… Read More  We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !  