 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I'm trying to find a "View the Call Hierarchy" feature in Visual Studio/VSCodium.  What I want to do is right-click on a method's name (or press a keyboard shortcut), and a new pane opens up, displaying all the methods that call the clicked method, and the call tree of this method.  I found that in Eclipse and PyCharm but I only found "Find all references" in VSCode.  EDIT: I want to do that in Python, but if a such feature exists for all languages, that would be nice.  I wonder if this feature is still in progress. I am looking for call heirarchy / call tree view for C/C++ functions in VsCode. This is a really helpful feature for programmers. I recently switched to VsCode after almost 10+ years using Eclipse IDE. We had this call heirarchy in Eclipse IDE that is super useful when it comes to understanding code flow. Could someone direct me if there are any free extensions available if VsCode doesn't support by its own?  2 Answers 2  A call hierarchy view shows all calls from or to a function and allows you to drill into callers of callers and calls of calls. The image below shows that function foo is being called by bar and bang, then bar is being called by bang and fib.  This is a preview feature and there aren't any extensions currently providing real data for it. However, if you are an extension author, we invite you to validate our proposed API. If you are interested, there is a sample extension for testing: https://github.com/jrieken/demo-callhierarchy.  There is already a bound command for this, . You will have to see whether any python extension has support for this feature.  In the v1.50 Insiders' Build is the ability to dismiss/exclude selected entries in the call heirarchy (possibly after you have reviewed that entry). See https://github.com/microsoft/vscode/issues/98155  Note the dismiss button in the demo:  [thanks to @VonC for finding this PR and pointing it out]  I have version 1.52.0 and I still don't have this? Shift+Alt+H only opens up the help menu.  Right click on the method or function then select find all references (shift + alt + F12) you can ignore the declaration references and check only other references.  1,22422 gold badges1515 silver badges2929 bronze badges  1  7  The OP mentioned they already found this feature. What they want is the complete call hierarchy (function A is called by funtions B and C, B is call by C, D, F.....)  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  