 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  My eventual goal is to redirect the from several subprocesses to some queues, and print those out somewhere (maybe in a little GUI).  The first step is to subclass into an object that behaves much like the . But that is where I got stuck. Subclassing the multiprocessing seems impossible in Python v3.5.  In Python v3.5 you stumble on strange error messages when subclassing the multiprocessing class. I found two bug reports describing the issue:  Suppose I want to stick to Python v3.5 - going to a previous version is not really an option. What workaround can I use to subclass the multiprocessing Queue somehow?  Is the bug still around if I upgrade to Python v3.6?  EDIT :  There is a known issue when you try to subclass the class found in here:  But the following should work:  Sadly, even that doesn't work in Python v3.5. You get the following error:  EDIT :  Thank you Darth Kotik for solving the problem! Here is the complete code, updated with his solution. Now it works.  Hi @BiRico , thank you very much. Unfortunately, it is not the same issue. The issue described in that post is about instantiating a Queue-object. The issue of subclassing Queue is not mentioned, nor explained.  I was able to make a subclass in Python 3.5.2 but cannot get the queue to terminate yet.  1 Answer 1  So as you can see is just constructor method for class. If you want to make a child class just do  EDIT: Okay. I got your problem now. As you can see on a link above, passes argument to Queue. So I managed to get it working by doing it myself in method. I don't completely inderstand where object supposed to get attribute, so I passed it manually.  EDIT2: Turned out docs have some information about context here. So instead of manually creating it like I did you can do  It will create proper context with set (to 'fork' in your particular case) and you can pass it to your queue.  1,99211 gold badge1818 silver badges2525 bronze badges  5  I have tried both ways (multiprocessing.Queue and multiprocessing.queue.Queue), but none works.  Hi @Darth Kotik , I have added an edit to my question. There I show the complete example, and the detailed error message. Do you work on Python 3.5? It would be great if you could reproduce the error :-)  It works! Thank you so much for helping me out on this. I have updated my question: your solution is now visible in the code :-)  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  