 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  could you please tell me why the call of the method says that "5 doesn't exist in the binary tree"? when debugging, it's like when trying to access the node where 5 is inserted doesn't exist anymore. i don't see why. thank you!!!  5 Answers 5  At least function is wrong and is the reason of undefined behaviour of the program  For example in this code block  you create a local variable and its address asign to the pointer of right child. However as the variable is local it is destroyed after the control leaves the code block and the corresponding pointer in the tree will be invalid.  You need to dynamically allocate nodes and add them to the tree.  A better design is when the class contains a ponter to the head of the tree. Declare data member parent like  248k1818 gold badges161161 silver badges285285 bronze badges  3  Did not see the undefined behaviour, upvote deserved. I bet that this answer should be the accepted one  It's not kindness. Among all the problems that others (and I) reported, this is probably the biggest one and we failed to notice it so this definitely should be the accepted answer. OP should have spent more time reading answers instead of jumping to the first one that may solve momentarily the problem but still fails to grasps the undefined behaviour  You are passing by value. That means the value will be copied. When you change inside of the method you are only changing this copy.  This will pass found by reference, so if you change it inside of the original in the method will be changed as well.  The first one is that the boolean found is never returned by the function. You can either change bool found to bool & found so that you do not have to return anything or change the return type of to in which case you'll need to change your code to something like this:  If you change the return type please also think about changing one line in your function just after the :  I haven't tested the code yet so there might be other issues still.  The next time you face such an issue, I suggest trying to use gdb as it will probably help in detecting what your code is really doing so that you can figure out what may be wrong. For instance here, you could have seen that the found was never set to true in your function just by "printing" step by step the value of your variable.  Also, I think the way you designed your classes is not really good. Parent should be a pointer, pointing to the root of the tree. I would suggest a complete re-designing of your code. You can find some good implementations online that you can be your code upon.  Finally the goto is definitely a bad idea... I would get rid of that too.  thanks for everyone. i've changed passing found by reference and allocated memeory using "new" for new nods.This now works!!  Still some issues with your code, see my post for explanations ;). Glad that it works nonetheless :). And usually, after accepting an answer, OP should not post is whole code as an answer too ;)  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  