 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I have jQuery 1.8.3 version and I do not have access to the file. It is from another server, I just use a link to the library. The function works, but there is no css apply to the results and i am getting that error message in console. YES I saw solutions that I have to modified the library, but I do not have acccess to do that. What should I do in order to make this work.  @Terry As I said in the post. I do not have access to the library. Your solution is about to modify the library. I am looking for another solution, which do not modify the library. Pay more attention please before mark it as duplicated  @Jozsef, if you cannot modify the library, why don't you simply alias to in your own module?  @FrédéricHamidi please tell me how, or how can I do that. This is the first time that I face curCss. I didn't hear about this before :), thx  You said you "do not have access to the file" but you did not say you cannot reference a newer version of jQuery UI. The duplicate question I linked simply instructed users to use a newer version—nobody is asking you to modify the core UI files yourself. Perhaps you should revise your question's context and circumstance before anything else.  1 Answer 1  As a workaround, you could simply redefine in your module.  After including jQuery, write something like:  jQuery UI will end up calling that function afterwards, and the autocomplete widget will work as intended.  Update: I just realized my answer is a quasi-duplicate of Johann Chaves Saborío's answer there. I will leave it here, though, because my function propagates the return value of to the caller, but his doesn't.  246k4040 gold badges462462 silver badges465465 bronze badges  2  Thanks! This also works with the same error I got with fullcalendar.io (using an old version that used jQueryUI 1.8 I believe).  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  