 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I am using class-validator package with NestJS and I am looking to validate an array of objects that need to have exactly 2 objects with the same layout:  So far I have:  and  per @kamilg response (I am able to enforce exacly 2 elements):  I still can pass an empty array or an array with some other objects not related to AuthParam.  How I should modify it get validation?  Also how I can enforce mandatory 2 elements in the array? MinLength(2) seems to be regarding string... (resolved)  5 Answers 5  Add to your array and it should be working. decorator is required for nested objects(arrays). Your code becomes  Be careful if you are using any exception filter to modify the error reponse. Make sure you understand the structure of the class-validator errors.  1,83422 gold badges1212 silver badges1616 bronze badges  1  Hi, any idea on how to achieve this for an array of numbers in a query param? imagine im trying to validate [www.url.com/path?ids=1,2,3] , where [ids] should be an array of numbers, and nothing else. tried converting your answer, but with no success so far.  You may want to consider writing custom validator which would better reflect the business requirement you have.  This is nicely resolve number of elements question - thank you. Validation of objects inside array still valid  I Know I Am Late But Facing Some Issue With Type, Then Try Another Way To Implement This:  so I may only assume that object which is being validated, is not an instance of  as expected, there aren't any decorators on this object (which may be true for Nest.js controllers and nested objects from body/req) - so validation is ignored.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  