 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I'm having some trouble with adding a String in my "Row" class to my "Table" class. So every time i create a class called row it will add the submitted string to the same instance of the class "Table". Here is my Row class:  31922 gold badges77 silver badges1818 bronze badges  3  The way you have your classes named, it looks like a row is a collection of tables. Did you mean to have ?  Can't you just leave out the .convertToString() stuff? If you pass in a (that you've just created to be empty actually), you don't really need to convert it probably. And also, it seems like you're using applicants as a global in the constructor of Row(), which is unusual.  @SamDufel You're right. I want a table to be a collection of rows. I made the change however now. When i compile the method toArray() in the table class gets an error? "toArray() in Table cannot implement toArray() in java.util.List return type void is not compatible with java.lang.Object[]"  1 Answer 1  applicants(row) is not a method in the Row/Table class.  If you wish to add the row to the Arrraylist in the Row class then use the add method  applicant.add(row) method.  Also you should note that Table and Row relationship does not require you to create a Row class extending the Table class. It should be two separate classes. So Table and Row class will have a one to Many relationship. So modify the Table class such that it is able to add several instances of Row class.  I dont know what you are trying to do but lets say you a Row class should contain two things a rowID and applicantName. And a table class which will have many rows representing each Applicant.  so Row class will somewhat look like this:  And the table class will look like this:  so use the above classes in below manner:  Table table = new Table();  //So now when you will call the below method list it will print all the applicants with //their ids  4,51633 gold badges1818 silver badges1515 bronze badges  4  I want to add row to the arrayList<applicants> in the Table class. Sorry if it looks really unclear. Thanks for the help though.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  