 Common operations on various Data Structures  Data Structure is the way of storing data in computer’s memory so that it can be used easily and efficiently. There are different data-structures used for the storage of data. It can also be define as a mathematical or logical model of a particular organization of data items. The representation of particular data structure in the main memory of a computer is called as storage structure. For Examples: Array, Stack, Queue, Tree, Graph, etc.  Operations on different Data Structure: There are different types of operations that can be performed for the manipulation of data in every data structure. Some operations are explained and illustrated below:  Traversing: Traversing a Data Structure means to visit the element stored in it. This can be done with any type of DS. Below is the program to illustrate traversal in an array:  Array  Stack  Queue  LinkedList  Output:  Searching: Searching means to find a particular element in the given data-structure. It is considered as successful when the required element is found. Searching is the operation which we can performed on data-structures like array, linked-list, tree, graph, etc. Below is the program to illustrate searching an element in an array:  Array  Stack  Queue  LinkedList  Output:  Insertion: It is the operation which we apply on all the data-structures. Insertion means to add an element in the given data structure. The operation of insertion is successful when the required element is added to the required data-structure. It is unsuccessful in some cases when the size of the data structure is full and when there is no space in the data-structure to add any additional element. The insertion has the same name as an insertion in the data-structure as an array, linked-list, graph, tree. In stack, this operation is called Push. In the queue, this operation is called Enqueue. Below is the program to illustrate insertion in stack:  Array  Stack  Queue  LinkedList  Output:  Deletion: It is the operation which we apply on all the data-structures. Deletion means to delete an element in the given data structure. The operation of deletion is successful when the required element is deleted from the data structure. The deletion has the same name as a deletion in the data-structure as an array, linked-list, graph, tree, etc. In stack, this operation is called Pop. In Queue this operation is called Dequeue. Below is the program to illustrate dequeue in Queue:  Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here.  We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !  