 Construct Binary Tree from String with bracket representation  Construct a binary tree from a string consisting of parenthesis and integers. The whole input represents a binary tree. It contains an integer followed by zero, one or two pairs of parenthesis. The integer represents the root’s value and a pair of parenthesis contains a child binary tree with the same structure. Always start to construct the left child node of the parent first if it exists.  Examples:  We know first character in string is root. Substring inside the first adjacent pair of parenthesis is for left subtree and substring inside second pair of parenthesis is for right subtree as in the below diagram.  We need to find the substring corresponding to left subtree and substring corresponding to right subtree and then recursively call on both of the substrings.  For this first find the index of starting index and end index of each substring. To find the index of closing parenthesis of left subtree substring, use a stack. Let the found index be stored in index variable.  C++  Java  Python  C#  Javascript  Time Complexity: O(N2) Auxiliary Space: O(N)  Another recursive approach:  Algorithm:  If the next two consecutive elements are “(” and “)”, this means there is no left child otherwise we will create and add the left child to the parent node recursively.  Once the left child is added recursively, we will look for consecutive “(” and add the right child to the parent node.  Encountering “)” means the end of either left or right node and we will increment the start index  The recursion ends when the start index is greater than equal to the end index  C++  Java  Python3  C#  Javascript  Output  This article is contributed by Chhavi. If you like GeeksforGeeks and would like to contribute, you can also write an article using contribute.geeksforgeeks.org or mail your article to review-team@geeksforgeeks.org. See your article appearing on the GeeksforGeeks main page and help other Geeks. Please write comments if you find anything incorrect, or you want to share more information about the topic discussed above.  Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here.  We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !  