 C program for Time Complexity plot of Bubble, Insertion and Selection Sort using Gnuplot  Write a C program to plot and analyze the time complexity of Bubble sort, Insertion sort and Selection sort (using Gnuplot). As per the problem we have to plot a time complexity graph by just using C. So we will be making sorting algorithms as functions and all the algorithms are given to sort exactly the same array to keep the comparison fair.  Examples:  Approach: We will be using arrays of different sizes to plot the graph between the time taken by the sorting algorithm versus array size. Execution of the program will take some time for sorting arrays of size up to 100000 elements.  Below is the implementation of the above approach:  Output:  Now comes the question that how are we going to plot a graph on x-y coordinates? For that, we will be using a very simple utility called Gnuplot. Gnuplot is a portable command-line driven graphing utility for Linux, MS Windows, OSX and many other platforms.  Note:In this article, Ubuntu(Linux) is used.  First things first how to install Gnuplot.Use this command to install Gnuplot.  After this compile your code and copy the output in a text file using this command.  Open Gnuplot simply using.  Now the last thing is to plot the graph so use this command to plot the complexity graph.  Here is a terminal-snap of commands.  Here is the graph of complexity comparing bubble sort(purple curve), insertion sort(green curve) and selection sort(blue curve).  Observation: The average time complexity of all three algorithms is O(n^2) but as the size of input data increases, insertion sort performs far better than bubble sort and slightly better than selection sort.  Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here.  We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !  