 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I am new to Python so excuse for the silly mistakes... I am trying to create a priority queue using heap in python(2.7.15) and my code doesn't obviously work.  My question is what can I do to avoid this error and if my code has any flaws that maybe can cause further errors?  Your interpreter code has nothing to do with your implementation--it makes a regular and tries to access a method that it doesn't have.  so what should I try?as I said I am a newbie at this so I am missing a lot of basic things.  I'd make your pq into a class, import it on the command line and then use it by making an instance of it. If you haven't explored classes yet, I'd just go ahead and test it in the same file with and then call your methods.  2 Answers 2  You're building a class in an "object oriented C"-style that involves passing the object context into the function, e.g. . This is possible, but isn't natural to Python, which supports classes and a keyword called that represents an instance of an object, allowing one to write as you did when you called your function.  With this approach, a class would encapsulate all of the state data you currently have in the global scope:  Even as written in "C"-style, the program has no instance state outside of these global variables; you'd need some kind of structure to keep these variables together and pass them into functions, or use the keyword for each variable inside each of your functions, which is not a very good solution in terms of state safety, reusability, understandability or any other design metric.  Here's an example of the program refactored as a class:  Having done this, you can now import the class in your interpreter (make sure the source code is in the same folder, ), create an instance of the class and begin using it:  Another common practice is to add testing right into the class file using the conditional:  30.8k66 gold badges4949 silver badges5858 bronze badges  1  I was working on that right now about the class...I'll try it now but I believe its the right idea.Thanks  The way you have defined the function, you need to pass the list representing the queue as the first argument:  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  