 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I am trying to write a recursion function that takes an array as an argument and returns the MIN and MAX values. So far i can only get . I tried to add a pointer to send back the minimum value but for some reason, it always crashes and shows lots of warnings.  Please help me figure out what is wrong in my code.  so i tried this but the min that return is allways the one in index 0 how to make it works?  If this is your attempt of getting a grasp around recursion ... well, you're nearly there. But if this is for some real problem, eliminate recursion for good.  – user2371524  May 27 '17 at 13:08  2  Please do not vandalize your posts. Once you've posted a question, it belongs to the Stack Overflow community at large (under the CC BY-SA license). If you would like to disassociate this post from your account, see What is the proper route for a disassociation request?  is an assertion that the condition is satisfied by this function. If the condition is not satisfied, an error message is displayed and aborted.  another question there is any way of doin it without static veriables in the function?  @monkey.D.Ganga can be replaced with a function call. However, it will wastefully execute the function multiple times.  has wrong type relative to the parameter declaration.  The argument has type while the parameter has type .  Also the minimum element is not calculated.  In C++ there is standard algorithm named that returns a pair of pointers that point to the maximum an minimum elements of an array.  You could use a similar declaration of the function written in C.  Another approach is to return a pair of indices of the minimum and maximum elements.  To do so you need to declare a structure of two data members.  Below there is shown how the function that returns a pair of indices can be implemented in C.  Its output might look like  Take into account that the user can pass to the function an "empty" array that is when the argument that corresponds to the size of the array is equal to 0. In this case your own function implementation has undefined behavior.  If you may not use a structure then the function can be declared like  Or  It will not be difficult to change the shown above recursive function according to these declarations.  @monkey.D.Ganga I showed you a function implemented in C. Reread one more my post.  it is to complicated, i appreciate your work. but its not what i asked, sure there are many way to make this MIN&MAX function but i can use only recursion and have to make it as simple as i can  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  