 String vs Character Array In C++, in addition to character array, there exist a similar kind of way to implement string, that is using string class which is a part of C++ standard library. To implement string using string class, we need to add header file . Basic difference between character array and a string is, in case of character array, the size has to be allotted at the time of declaration, i.e all memory once allocated is fixed and cannot be altered at run time. Whereas, for string, there is no need to specify the size and to allocate fixed memory at the time of declaration.  Output:  Some useful String Functions  compare(string_to_compare ) :- It is used to compare two strings. It returns the difference of second string and first string in integer.  Output :  find(“string”): Searches the string for the first occurrence of the substring specified in arguments. It returns the position of the first occurrence of substring.  find_first_of(“string”): Searches the string for the first character that matches any of the characters specified in its arguments. It returns the position of the first character that matches.  find_last_of(“string”): Searches the string for the last character that matches any of the characters specified in its arguments. It returns the position of the last character that matches.  rfind(“string”): Searches the string for the last occurrence of the substring specified in arguments. It returns the position of the last occurrence of substring  Output:  insert(pos_to_begin,string_to_insert): This function inserts the given substring in the string. It takes two arguments, first the position from which you want to insert the substring and second the substring.  Output:  clear(): This function clears all the characters from the string. The string becomes empty (length becomes 0) after this operation.  empty(): Tests whether the string is empty. This function return a Boolean value.  Output:  This article is contributed by Manjeet Singh. If you like GeeksforGeeks and would like to contribute, you can also write an article using write.geeksforgeeks.org or mail your article to review-team@geeksforgeeks.org. See your article appearing on the GeeksforGeeks main page and help other Geeks.  Please write comments if you find anything incorrect, or you want to share more information about the topic discussed above  Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here.  We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !  