 Data Structures and Algorithms Online Courses : Free and Paid  Data Structures and Algorithms is one of the most important skills that every computer science student must-have. It is often seen that people with good knowledge of these technologies are better programmers than others and thus, crack the interviews of almost every tech giant. Now, you must be thinking to opt for a quality DSA Course to build & enhance your data structures and algorithms skills, right…??  If yes, then you’ve ended up at the right place as here we’ll let you know about several most recommended and worthwhile DSA Courses that will help you to learn and master all the DSA concepts from basics to the advanced level!  Choosing the correct data structure or algorithm to solve a particular problem affects a lot on the efficiency of the solution.  These skills not only help a programmer to land a high-paying job but also to sustain and perform well in the Job. Let’s see how?  Consider the scenario of an interview, where two programmers A and B applied for a software developer role and were asked to solve the below problem.  Problem: Given a sorted array and a key to search. Check if the key is present in the array or not.  Programmer A solves the above problem by performing a linear search operation and programmer B solves the above problem by performing the Binary Search operation.  After the results are announced, programmer B got selected and programmer A got rejected.  What went wrong with programmer A?  The solutions of both programmers A and B were correct, but programmer B is found to be efficient and more proficient in using the correct data structure and algorithms to solve a particular problem given. The problem mentioned above takes O(N) time by the solution of programmer A whereas it takes O(LogN) time by the solution of programmer B.  With the increasing demands and competition in the software engineering industry, companies these days not only look for hard-working developers but also for developers who can solve a problem as optimally as possible to meet customer satisfaction and are not afraid of paying high.  Some surveys conducted about the salary reports of software developers in India say that anyone who has a good and fair understanding of how data structures and algorithms work earns around 20-30 Lakhs per annum.  Data Structures and Algorithms Online/Live Courses  At GeeksforGeeks, we have a vast library of articles contributed by some of the renowned and good Competitive Programmers around the globe which is accessible for free at GeeksforGeeks.  Moreover, we also have a few online and live courses to learn and practice Data Structures, Algorithms, Programming Languages, etc to prepare for coding interviews which can be accessed at GeeksforGeeks | Courses.  This DSA Self Paced Course is specifically designed for beginners, whether it be students or working professionals, who want to learn the Data Structures and Algorithms concepts from basic to the advanced level. As it is a self-paced course, you can join it anytime with all of the content being available once you get enrolled and you can finish it at your own decided speed. This self-paced course has been divided into 8 weeks where you will learn the basics of DSA and can practice questions & attempt the assessment tests from anywhere in the world. Furthermore, it will help you to prepare for interviews with top-notch companies like Microsoft, Amazon, Adobe, etc.  In this course, you will also learn algorithmic techniques for solving various problems with full flexibility of time. Also, there is no need for any prior knowledge of Data Structure and Algorithms for this course – however, if you have a basic knowledge of any programming language (C++ / Java), it will be quite helpful.  It will be an extensive online (live) classroom program, specifically designed for the working professionals, to build and enhance Data Structures and Algorithm concepts. The course is designed to improve your problem-solving and coding skills by enhancing your understanding of Data Structures & Algorithms. The primary goal of this course is to help you in the preparation for the Coding interviews of companies like Amazon, Microsoft, Uber, etc. It will be an online live (Live Stream) class, so you can attend this class from any geographical location. It will be an interactive live session, where you can ask your doubts to the instructor (similar to the offline classroom program).  You’ll also get complimentary DSA course content made by the CEO, practice questions, doubt assistance, contests & much more!  If you want a test series to boost your preparation then you can choose SDE Test Series  The test series is designed to help you build concepts, prepare strategies, identify weaknesses, and take steps to eliminate them. The test series simulate several variations that a job interview could come up with and thereby, through the practice provided, helps students develop accuracy and speed for the interview.  We feel that this is the vital aspect that enables a student to perform well when they appear for a job in top product-based companies. A test series is also a tool that helps the student to evaluate performance over a while and improve accordingly. The detailed test analysis is an invaluable part of the preparation that any serious candidate would vouch for.  In this course, the contest problem solutions are available in the video mode & at the discussion forum, you may discuss the problems with the team of problem setters. Further, the tests will be available every week. According to your time convenience, you may attempt that contest at any time that week.  Some Other Worthwhile FREE Online Courses  Some of our popular free online courses are listed below:  Course Description: This course is specially designed for the CPP apprentices who want to hone their skills in CPP for Coding Interviews and Competitive Programming. No matter if you are a school student or a college student, if you have a zeal for programming, this is the right time to start.  Course Description: This course is specially designed for Java apprentices who want to hone their skills in Java for Coding Interviews and Competitive Programming. No matter if you are a school student or a college student, if you have a zeal for programming, this is the right time to start.  Course Description: This course is specially designed for Python beginners who want to enhance their Python skills and get better at solving coding problems using Python. This course will impart to you the knowledge necessary to convert coding logic to Python code. Complete this course to tame Python!  Course Description: The placement season is coming! Are you ready? We are here to help you ace the interview with the last-minute preparation. This course is based on the most frequently asked questions in product-based companies. It will help to boost your preparation for different interview rounds in tech giants. The course will have programming questions from the intermediate to the advanced level.  Course Description: This course is an 11-week workshop that will take you through all the common Data Structures like Arrays, Trees, Graphs, LinkedList, and many such concepts in a highly interactive manner. Every week you will be interacting with the top industry expert where you will learn how they implement DSA in real-life scenarios.  Features of Our Free Online Courses:  All the courses available for free are designed by our highly qualified team members who have a soundtrack record of solving complex programming problems.  All the above-mentioned courses are available for free and can be accessed from anywhere and anytime.  Our free courses also contain periodic tracks and contests.  The course contents are highly comprehensive and well organized which makes learning easier.  Some courses also include free certification upon course completion.  Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here.  We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !  