 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I am just trying to learn binary heap and have a doubt regarding doing delete operation in binary heap. I have read that we can delete an element from binary heap and we need to reheapify it.  3 Answers 3  Binary heaps and other priority queue structures don't usually support a general "delete element" operation; you need an additional data structure that keeps track of each element's index in the heap, e.g. a hash table. If you have that, you can implement a general delete operation as  find-element, O(1) expected time with a hash table  decrease key to less than the minimum, O(lg n) time  delete-min and update the hash table, O(lg n) combined expected time.  337k7171 gold badges709709 silver badges814814 bronze badges  2  Thanks Larsmans! It means binary heap is only good for sorting data on their priority basis.  A regular delete is possible, just like a DeleteMin/Max. The "problem" is that you have to check for both up- and downshifts (i.e.: when the "last" node takes up the vacant spot, it can be over- or underevaluated. Since it still can't be both, for obvious reasons, it's easy to check for correctness.  The only problem that remains is the Find. The answer above states that you can Find Element in O(lg n), but I wouldn't know how. In my implementations, I generally build a Heap of pointers-to-elements rather than elements (cheaper copying during up/downshifts). I add a "position" variable to the Element type, which keeps track of the index of the Element's pointer in the Heap. This way, given an element E, I can find it's position in the Heap in constant time.  Obviously, this isn't cut out for every implementation.  I am confused why delete operation of binary heap is mentioned as unavailable in the link of your question. Deletion in binary heap quite possible and it's composition of 2 other operations of binary heap. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Binary_heap  I am considering you know all other operations of Binary Heap  Deleting a key from binary heap requires 2 lines of code/operation. Suppose you want to delete item at index . Decrease it's value to lowest integer possible. That's . Since it's lowest value of all integer it will go to root position when execution done. Afterwards extract the root invoking method.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  