 DFS traversal of a tree using recursion  Given a Binary tree, Traverse it using DFS using recursion. Unlike linear data structures (Array, Linked List, Queues, Stacks, etc) which have only one logical way to traverse them, trees can be traversed in different ways. Generally, there are 2 widely used ways for traversing trees:  Depth-first search  DFS (Depth-first search) is technique used for traversing tree or graph. Here backtracking is used for traversal. In this traversal first the deepest node is visited and then backtracks to it’s parent node if no sibling of that node exist.  DFS Traversal of a Graph vs Tree  In graph, there might be cycles and dis-connectivity. Unlike graph, tree does not contain cycle and always connected. So DFS of a tree is relatively easier. We can simply begin from a node, then traverse its adjacent (or children) without caring about cycles. And if we begin from a single node (root), and traverse this way, it is guaranteed that we traverse the whole tree as there is no dis-connectivity,  Examples:  Tree:  Therefore, the Depth First Traversals of this Tree will be: (a) Inorder (Left, Root, Right) : 4 2 5 1 3 (b) Preorder (Root, Left, Right) : 1 2 4 5 3 (c) Postorder (Left, Right, Root) : 4 5 2 3 1  C++  C  Java  Python  C#  Javascript  Output:  Uses of Inorder: In case of binary search trees (BST), Inorder traversal gives nodes in non-decreasing order. To get nodes of BST in non-increasing order, a variation of Inorder traversal where Inorder traversal s reversed can be used.  C++  C  Java  Python  C#  Output:  Uses of Preorder: Preorder traversal is used to create a copy of the tree. Preorder traversal is also used to get prefix expression on of an expression tree. Please see http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Polish_notation to know why prefix expressions are useful.  Implementing all traversals using DFS  C++  C  Java  Python  C#  Output:  Time Complexity: O(n) Auxiliary Space: If we don’t consider size of stack for function calls then O(1) otherwise O(n).  Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here.  We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !  