 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  Can anyone help me implement the bfs on my graph? I put my graph implementation here and the bfs algorithm to my graph . I just need some ideas how to do it.  The bfs algorithm i took it from the internet, I understand it but it's for general cases, I don't know how to adapt it to my graph  isEdge() returns always YES. And inboundNeighbors() returns random nr. I can't figure it out .  Fix one error at a time via debugging. If there are so many, it's also a good idea to rethink/reread/redraft. It's like you would with an English paper, but more specificly divided into syntax and semantics. The compiler and run time output are usually very specific and give you line numbers to work with.  The problem is that I dont't know how to modify my functions to work after I have added a cost to an edge. I've put a % symbol on the rows where I get errors  You cannot use stackoverflow like this. You must leave original question. Please restore original question.  1 Answer 1  This is how to solve your problem. I preferred to paste only final solution without repeating the whole code to make it easier for you to read. If you are interested to see how the code was before, check the edit history.  edit I have fixed and implemented . Pay attention that the second function makes sense only when you have the edge and we assume positive costs. Otherwise, we need other considerations, but I think it's better for you to post another question.  In I provided you with a complete example, so, if you experiment some changes, make sure that you have the same results I had posted here. Surely all the class can be written better, but, with your experience, is better to make things simple.  6,70855 gold badges4242 silver badges7373 bronze badges  10  The nr. of edges can be easily fixed because, there are 2 private members that I have declared nr_edges and nr_vertices. I use them to store these values. Actually the graph is read from a text file but i didn't put that part. Thank you!  It's not working. I get a lot of errors, starting from the declaration of the Edge class :"Illegal modifier for the class Edge; only public, abstract & final are permitted" and more in the DiGraph class. I'm sorry for asking so much but I'm new to java.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  