 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  Questions tagged [dynamic-programming]  Dynamic programming is an algorithmic technique for efficiently solving problems with a recursive structure containing many overlapping subproblems. Do not use this tag for general "dynamic" behavior in code.  There are multiple approaches to solve the codeforces problem F. Consecutive Subsequence: You are given an integer array of length 𝑛 You have to choose some subsequence of this array of maximum ...  I was working on Leetcode Problem 1770 and ran into some weird behavior that I'm hoping someone can help me understand. It's a dynamic programming problem that requires you to instantiate a 2-...  I watched a video on Youtube explaining how to calculate which operations are used and how many times by going back to 1 from the last cell of the matrix obtained from the dynamic programming ...  This question was asked in an company coding round which unfortunately I was unable to solve, I am getting the glimpse that this question is based on greedy but cannot proceed further, anyone who has ...  Given n items, each item has it's weight - wi and value - vi. Given 2 sacks with total weights - W1 and W2 (W1 and W2 can be different). Using dynamic programming with a 2D array, return the maximum ...  I have a solution to a problem that uses dynamic programming. I need help turning this from a recursive solution into an iterative one. The function takes in a number and follows the three rules: it ...  I'd like to know if it is possible to use the knapsack 01 problem to solve a minimization problem. It is possible? This is the maximization version of the knapsack 01. KNAPSACK01(values, weights, W) ...  I am learning automata theory. I think that there must be some relationship between state machine theory and dynamic programming. for the reason that the essence of dynamic programming is state ...  I am trying to practice basic dynamic programming in C++, but for some reason, it isn't inserting new values into the std::map object. As a result, it just runs like a standard fibonacci function ...  I am finding the length of the longest substring possible from the given string For this, I am using the hashmap approach of hashing the ASCII values of the character I have added the comments but ...  In Algorithm Design Manual, edit distance is solved by the following algorithm #define INSERT 1 /* enumerated type symbol for insert */ #define DELETE 2 /* enumerated type symbol for ...  I want a table (table1) to be displayed n times according the number entered by the user in the input form. Then for each instance of this table the user should be able to click on each row and ...  public List<String> generateParenthesis(int n) { if (n < 1) { return Arrays.asList(""); } else if (n == 1) { return Arrays.asList("()"); } else ...  This is a homework question, but I don't really know how to go about tackling it and would appreciate any tips, as I haven't found any very similar problems online. Basically, I have to come up with a ...  I was trying to solve an algorithm question that involvde counting the number of squareful array permutations from a given array. An array is squareful if and only if the sum of every pair of adjacent ...  I am solving a problem of dynamic programming "Longest Common Subsequence". For those who are unaware of it here's an article on it and a video version which I have used as references. What ...  here is my code but i want to optimize it with dynamic programming def fibbo(n): if n==0: return 1 elif n==1 return 1 else: return fibbo(n-1) + fibbo(n-2)  Just like the title says: The function to write has 2 parameters, the first is a number, the second a list of numbers: example: (7, [5,3,4,7]) The Python function to write should return a list of ...  I was trying to solve a dp problem (checking if given amount can be broken down with given coins with different values, assuming there are infinite number of coins available for each valued coins) def ...  I am trying to write some code which will find the number of different combinations of numbers from 1 to N, where the maximum sum is equal to S. I am using a recursive function and Dynamic Programming....  I am building a Student Management System and it has to make use of linked lists. One of the requirements is that each student has to have a list of courses that they are enrolled in. To handle that I ...  I wanted help on how to calculate the Time complexity of my algorithm below. I believe its 2^n but for some reason it's performing ridiculously fast. We make at most two decisions and the tree depth ...  I'm new around and programming. To practice my learning I try to create some basic codes. I know there are different ready to use solutions for my problem. I try to create a combination program. The ...  I have a classical unbounded knapsack problem with a stochastic twist. There is a list of carts that have weight and price. I go over each cart in the list, one by one, and every time I pick a certian ...  Can somebody help me with this problem? Statement: - What is the maximum possible n digit number starting from 0 we can make in K steps using only 2 operations:- multiplying by 3 or incrementing by 2. ...  The purpose of the function is to find the numbers in a given array can form the given sum or not. It can use the numbers in the array as many times as required to get the sum. Can anyone find the the ...  The problem is that now we have a bipartite graph G, each vertex in this graph is either of type A or type B. Each edge has a cost. The goal is to find a subset of edge such that each node have at ...  This is the question->https://atcoder.jp/contests/dp/tasks/dp_d I used memoization to solve the problem and think have all the cases covered. Base case - When there are no elements left return 0. ...  Config Tested under clojure 1.10.3 and openjdk 17.0.1 Problem Below is the slightly revised version of the memoized Fibonacci, and the general techniques refer to wiki memoization. (def fib (memoize ...  Question: There are N works that needs to be assigned for 2 people. Person A can finish work i in a[i] time, person B can finish work i in b[i] time. Each work can only be assigned to 1 person. After ...  Question: There are N works that needs to be assigned for 2 people. Person A can finish work i in a[i] time, person B can finish work i in b[i] time. Each work can only be assigned to 1 person. After ...  Suppose we are given n open intervals (a_1, b_1), ..., (a_n, b_n), with interval i being assigned a weight w_i for all i. We are given an integer k<n, and we are allowed to choose k arbitrary ...  So I am doing this question of EDIT DISTANCE and before going to DP approach I am trying to solve this question in recursive manner and I am facing some logical error, please help.... Here is my code -...  Apologies if this isn't the right community to ask this question to, I'm trying to solve Leetcode # 1986 Minimum Number of Work Sessions to Finish the Tasks, just in case the link is no longer valid, ...  This is a twist on the standard "weighted interval scheduling problem", which was answered here Algorithm to find the maximum sum in a sequence of overlapping intervals. My problem is very ...  Assume that there is a list of strings, like [['Jason, Nick']['Nick, Bob']['Bob', 'Mac']]. We want to find the longest length of pair chain that the first name of the second list is equal to the last ...  I was solving a recursive problem in haskell, although I could get the solution I would like to cache outputs of sub problems since has over lapping sub-problem property. The question is, given a grid ...  Description: Given two positive integers N and R, how many different ways are there to cut a rod of length N into R pieces, such that the length of each piece is a positive integer? Output this answer ...  Question: Given an array arr[] with N integers. What is the maximum number of items that can be chosen from the array so that their GCD is greater than 1? Example: 4 30 42 105 1 Answer: 3 ...  How can I make my code instead of returning just the maximum value, return the maximum value and some sort of array containing (the indices of) all books that can be included in the bag and add up to ...  Please look at the code snippet that is from org.springframework.util.ReflectionUtils @Nullable private static List<Method> findConcreteMethodsOnInterfaces(Class<?> clazz) { List<...  I have to implement a function that determines the length of one of the longest palindromes in a string. The strings consist only of numbers and letters. When testing palindromes, upper and lower case ...  I came across a nice post on SO by @amalloy while looking for hylomorhism examples, that illustrate recursion scheme (RS) usage with useful discussion and full implementation: {-# LANGUAGE ...  I want to find the sum of all the positive integers in the range [1, N] with a given digit sum d. For example, if n = 100 and d = 7, the answer will be 7 + 16 + 25 + 34 + 43 + 52 + 61 + 70 = 308. ...  An example , suppose we have a 2D array such as: A= [ [1,0,0], [1,0,0], [0,1,1] ] The task is to find all sub rectangles concluding only zeros. So the output of this algorithm should ...  I have a variant of weighted interval scheduling that I couldn't find anything about: the inputs are intervals in which people are present in target area, their importance (the "weight"), ...  If I have the matrices M0, M1, M2, M3 with the dimensions 10×1, 1×2, 2×1, 1×10 respectively. I am getting the same cost for two different cases, is this possible or am I doing something wrong? M03 = (...  I understand how to cover three terms (while n is either 0, 1 or 2) as base case but how can I have my function return three recursive calls? I'm after a recursive thrib(n) function that on input n, ...  I have a python solution to the canConstruct problem with and without memoization. Without memoization: def canConstruct(target, wordBank): if target == '': return True for word in ...  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  