 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I'm trying to write a simple program that reads a type value from the standard input, prints it on screen and checks whether it's either the lowest or the greatest value of all of the previously loaded values.  My code looks like this:  I get the following error:  no match for 'operator[]' (operand types are 'Vector<double>' and 'std::vector<double>::iterator {aka __gnu_cxx::__normal_iterator<double*, std::vector<double> >}')  In lines which contain statements that check if the current is greater or lower than the extreme values of a sorted array of values that so far has been input.  What's the solution for this problem? I assume it's something related to syntax, but I've run out of ideas.  Please for posterity, do not do this: ; Include the necessary standard library headers, and use the qualified namespace name, aka  has two bugs. One that you can't access the item at end() the second is [] requires an index not an iterator.  @WhiZ That's one of the many problematic features of Stroustrup's introduction book.  3 Answers 3  Using iterators  If you want to use iterators (e.g. because you get iterators as part of some algorithm), you can access the first and last elements by dereferencing the iterator:  Using  The array access operator takes an index, like this:  You can also use instead of . This adds extra bounds checking (you will get an exception if your index is out of range), but has a runtime performance cost  Using 's own functions  already has functions built in to access the first and last elements.  is an iterator, not an index. expects an index and since you gave it an iterator it causes the compiler error. If you want to get the first and last elements in the vector then you can use the and member functions that return the first and last element respectively. That looks like  The for vectors takes numerical indexes, not iterators. and for vectors return iterators. In your statements, you're passing iterators to the subscript operator instead of numbers, causing the error.  If you want the first and last elements of the vector, use and , or dereference the iterators.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  