 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  My findNode is called in my insert function with the address of tree. Since im inserting the first word tree should be NULL but when I debug it skips over this check in my FindWords function.  Im not sure exactly what is the value of tree here if it is not NULL, please advise.  when I insert the first word, tree should be NULL here because no words exist. But instead of this function returning NULL when no words exists its skips to the if statement (strcmp(word, tree->word == 0)) and causes a segmentation fault.  Thank you for your response. I added a more specific spot of where I am having the issue and the rest of my code. Please advise  1 Answer 1  You are taking input in buffer and passing it to . In the , you are doing  which will make all the new node pointer point to same buffer . Any changes in the content of buffer will reflect in all the nodes value. Instead, you should do  duplicates the given string. It uses to obtain memory for the new string. Make sure to free it once you are done with it.  You should also initialise the with before creating tree  because you are passing pointer to and in the you are checking for pointer is or not. So, you should explicitly initialise the pointer with .  10.1k22 gold badges1111 silver badges2626 bronze badges  2  I tried both of these and I got a segmentation fault because in the insert Node function i call the findNode function so if you set the tree pointer to NULL then it automatically, says the NODE does not exist. In which case the count will always be zero.  @dark_deer where are you setting to ? You should set in the before entering loop. Your function is having handling of when it is (which is the terminating condition of recursion). So, there should not be any problem when calling when is . With these two changes, when I run your code, I am getting proper output - Input : , output : .  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  