 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  We have an N level (max is probably around 10 or so) nested data structure that basically resembles a folder layout ..  Each node at any level is a Mime type of something to show or a URL ..  My question is actually very simple .. is there any available Fluter Widget that can show this type of stucture -- allowing the common "open/close" at any parent level, etc. ??  This seems like a pretty fundamental UI element not be had in the stock toolbox but I haven't had any luck finding one ..  @ZainSMJ - Not precisely as desired but I did actually get a decent result by using a Listview with ExpansionTile as the children widgets. Not as fancy as a tree but it does work very well ..  4 Answers 4  Over the past few weeks I have been working on a widget and have come up with a basic structure. It is now available in the pub for use. Working on it is easy enough once you really know how to do it. I've got to admit that documentation has never been my strong point, but if someone has any trouble with this just add an issue on the Github page.  Any suggestions to improve the project are also welcome.  Sample Code  Let's assume this is the directory structure we want to implement using the widget  In this example  Resume.docx and Billing-Info.docx are widgets with documents as the .  documents, MeetingReport.xls, MeetingReport.xls and Demo.zip are widgets with Desktop as a widget.  This will not generate anything fancy at all. But instead of all the widgets you can pass any complex widget and it will still work.  A screen grab of an application using  5,69244 gold badges3737 silver badges6262 bronze badges  8  This looks pretty promising -- once I am at a decent pausing state I will take a look. I like how the layout is generated .. although until I try it with dynamic data from a DB source I'll reserve judgement but I think it should work pretty good. Is there a practical limitation to the level of nesting? What happens to the indentation when 5 or 6 levels in?  The tree view by default does not add any indentation. That has to be implemented seperately. I have an example in the GitHub repo. But it is not well documented as of now  @Imaginativeone I haven't pushed any changes since I originally published. Try the existing version, it should fit some use cases  Bit late to the party.I have also been searching for a treeview structure to use for my flutter project but i couldn't find any that suits my needs.So, I created a package dynamic_treeview .It uses a parent/child relationship to build a treeview.See if this suits your needs.Let me know what you guys think.Thanks  Doesn't work really much at all -- not Dart 2 compliant -- and lots of interdependencies .. but yes.. it was a good launching point..  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  