 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I am still green to debugging F77 and am having some problems with array bounds. I recently modified a lengthy code to have new array sizes. Everything 'seemed' okay until I noticed methods to alter one array, altered another. Somewhere in this code, I assume, an assignment is out of bounds and writing to the other arrays.  Is there a debugger/tool in the linux environment that will 'catch' the out of bounds exception?  2 Answers 2  There is a flag for gfortran to insert checks for out of bounds  -fbounds-check Enable generation of run-time checks for array subscripts and against the declared minimum and maximum values. It also checks array indices for assumed and deferred shape arrays against the actual allocated bounds. In the future this may also include other forms of checking, eg. checking substring references.  If this is at an employer, you may want to have them buy a license for "flint" - it's like "lint" for C, but for fortran.  Also, doesn't gdb/dbx/ddd do fortran debugging?  Oh, sometimes you need to turn on special flags in f77 in order to maintain the strings and debugging info in the executables and object files, much like "cc -g".  I have tried the -g flag on the compiler. Has helped a bunch, just not on the array bounds, unfortunately.  I could swear that the standard debuggers allows working on fortran things. It was always c++ objects that confused things back at my old job where we had C and fortran mixed together. Also note that f77 may have compiler requirements for debugging symbols.  Okay, I will take another survey on the debuggers and see if it can provide more assistance. Thanks!  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  