 Graph Data Structure And Algorithms  A Graph is a non-linear data structure consisting of nodes and edges. The nodes are sometimes also referred to as vertices and the edges are lines or arcs that connect any two nodes in the graph. More formally a Graph can be defined as,  In the above Graph, the set of vertices V = {0,1,2,3,4} and the set of edges E = {01, 12, 23, 34, 04, 14, 13}.  Graphs are used to solve many real-life problems. Graphs are used to represent networks. The networks may include paths in a city or telephone network or circuit network. Graphs are also used in social networks like linkedIn, Facebook. For example, in Facebook, each person is represented with a vertex(or node). Each node is a structure and contains information like person id, name, gender, locale etc.  1. Language Foundation Courses [C++ / JAVA / Python ] Learn any programming language from scratch and understand all its fundamentals concepts for a strong programming foundation in the easiest possible manner with help of GeeksforGeeks Language Foundation Courses – Java Foundation | Python Foundation | C++ Foundation  2. Geeks Classes Live Get interview-centric live online classes on Data Structure and Algorithms from any geographical location to learn and master DSA concepts for enhancing your problem-solving & programming skills and to crack the interview of any product-based company – Geeks Classes: Live Session  3. Complete Interview Preparation Get fulfilled all your interview preparation needs at a single place with the Complete Interview Preparation Course that provides you all the required stuff to prepare for any product-based, service-based, or start-up company at the most affordable prices.  4. DSA Self Paced Start learning Data Structures and Algorithms to prepare for the interviews of top IT giants like Microsoft, Amazon, Adobe, etc. with DSA Self-Paced Course where you will get to learn and master DSA from basic to advanced level and that too at your own pace and convenience.  5. Company Specific Courses – Amazon, Microsoft, TCS & Wipro Crack the interview of any product-based giant company by specifically preparing with the questions that these companies usually ask in their coding interview round. Refer GeeksforGeeks Company Specific Courses: Amazon SDE Test Series, etc.  Please write comments if you find anything incorrect, or you want to share more information about the topic discussed above.  We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !  