 Array Data Structure  An array is a collection of items stored at contiguous memory locations. The idea is to store multiple items of the same type together. This makes it easier to calculate the position of each element by simply adding an offset to a base value, i.e., the memory location of the first element of the array (generally denoted by the name of the array). The above image can be looked as a top-level view of a staircase where you are at the base of the staircase. Each element can be uniquely identified by their index in the array (in a similar way as you could identify your friends by the step on which they were on in the above example).  1. Language Foundation Courses [C++ / JAVA / Python ] Learn any programming language from scratch and understand all its fundamentals concepts for a strong programming foundation in the easiest possible manner with help of GeeksforGeeks Language Foundation Courses – Java Foundation | Python Foundation | C++ Foundation  2. Geeks Classes Live Get interview-centric live online classes on Data Structure and Algorithms from any geographical location to learn and master DSA concepts for enhancing your problem-solving & programming skills and to crack the interview of any product-based company – Geeks Classes: Live Session  3. Complete Interview Preparation Get fulfilled all your interview preparation needs at a single place with the Complete Interview Preparation Course that provides you all the required stuff to prepare for any product-based, service-based, or start-up company at the most affordable prices.  4. DSA Self Paced Start learning Data Structures and Algorithms to prepare for the interviews of top IT giants like Microsoft, Amazon, Adobe, etc. with DSA Self-Paced Course where you will get to learn and master DSA from basic to advanced level and that too at your own pace and convenience.  5. Company Specific Courses – Amazon, Microsoft, TCS & Wipro Crack the interview of any product-based giant company by specifically preparing with the questions that these companies usually ask in their coding interview round. Refer GeeksforGeeks Company Specific Courses: Amazon SDE Test Series, etc.  If you like GeeksforGeeks and would like to contribute, you can also write an article and mail your article to review-team@geeksforgeeks.org. See your article appearing on the GeeksforGeeks main page and help other Geeks.  Please write comments if you find anything incorrect, or you want to share more information about the topic discussed above  We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !  