 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  Above is my code. I am trying to create a java class that returns a playlist. I want it to return a title, genre, whether the playlist is private or public. All three of these things are already constructed above. However, to that list, as a fourth property I would like to add an array that lists all the song in the playlist. The array is already a property I created above(Song[]listOfSongs). However, I do not know how to join this array to the other three properties and how to put the songs in this array. Any suggestions?  2 Answers 2  if you don't want to change the songs, you could just place it in the constructor:  if the list of songs shouldn't be added in the constructor (i.e, it needs to be updated) I would use an ArrayList so you can change the size:  The usage of ArrayList does not help at all here because it is private. To change the value one has to keep a reference to the list (after setting it, which makes the new ArrayList in the constructor redundant) which is not optimal in my opinion.  In order to edit it, you can use a getter, update that list, and then set it as the new one. Alternatively, you can create a function that adds songs public void addSong (Song newSong) { this.listOfSongs.add(newSong); }) or one that removes them, if you have some way to identify the song in order to get the index  I'm sorry, but I honestly cannot see the benefit of using setters and getters here, what's wrong with just using a public field? I've seen the setter/getter pattern everywhere and frankly I dislike it where it is not necessary.  For me, it all depends on what you are trying to do with those fields. I agree that some people stress encapsulation a little too much, particularly in schooling environments. But I feel that there are some instances where it's important, and, without knowing what the Song class consists of and what you are trying to do with the PlayList class, I feel that it is the safer option.  Your code for won't compile. You can not do as the reassignment is not possible to a variable.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  