 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  Harold is a kidnapper who wrote a ransom note, but now he is worried it will be traced back to him through his handwriting. He found a magazine and wants to know if he can cut out whole words from it and use them to create an untraceable replica of his ransom note. The words in his note are case-sensitive and he must use only whole words available in the magazine. He cannot use substrings or concatenation to create the words he needs.  Given the words in the magazine and the words in the ransom note, print Yes if he can replicate his ransom note exactly using whole words from the magazine; otherwise, print No.  Example = "attack at dawn" = "Attack at dawn"  The magazine has all the right words, but there is a case mismatch. The answer is .  Function Description  Complete the checkMagazine function in the editor below. It must print if the note can be formed using the magazine, or .  checkMagazine has the following parameters:  string magazine[m]: the words in the magazine string note[n]: the words in the ransom note Prints  string: either or , no return value is expected Input Format  The first line contains two space-separated integers, and , the numbers of words in the and the , respectively. The second line contains space-separated strings, each . The third line contains space-separated strings, each .  Constraints  . Each word consists of English alphabetic letters (i.e., to and to ). Sample Input 0  6 4 give me one grand today night give one grand today Sample Output 0  Yes Sample Input 1  6 5 two times three is not four two times two is four Sample Output 1  No Explanation 1  There are gaps in your question. Like here: The answer is . -- The answer is? You might also want to make your question a bit more readable. Currently, it is a wall of text.  Why are you trying to implement your own hash table, instead of using one provided by python (e.g. , , )? Even if you had to do that, means all N-character words hash to the same bucket - you want to try to distribute words across a large number of buckets (normally roughly as many as there are words). If you don't know how to write a better string hash function, google that first.  1 Answer 1  Introducing Python Counters  From the docs: A Counter is a subclass for counting objects. It is a collection where elements are stored as dictionary keys and their counts are stored as dictionary values.  The logical between the two counters will give you the minimum of corresponding counts. Comparing the result with the is what you want.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  