 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I got data where in an array I got set of objects (with country and states keys along with values).  Now, I need to format data in such a manner, that I got a new array (with countryName as key, and list of states -in array as values).  I am trying to do that but unsuccessful. Can someone help me out?  6,97077 gold badges3434 silver badges7373 bronze badges  7  2  That is an improper usage of . You use when you want the result to accumulate translations and return them all in an array to be stored in a variable. Your instance is not doing that and is simply using it to iterate. You should use instead.  Also if you want your keys to have periods in them, you need to quote them, such as  Not sure what age of a function has to do with anything. It works perfectly fine. Otherwise, use map properly.  @Deadpool What is "TLs"? But yes, when you avoid , you should also avoid . Use the return value of !  5 Answers 5  That because object key with a dot is not a valid syntax. You can resolve this by wrapping the key with . Also, method creates a new array populated with the results of calling a provided function on every element in the calling array. So, you should either use method here like:  Or, you can use method and simply return the object inside the callback and store that in like:  Correct use of is to return value in map method, which is missing in your code. Apart from that use destructure to further simplify.  You can try this: It works well with your requirements.  Here we are using the keyword to declare our Object and just pushing the object into our Array. Also, since is a variable so we are using the notation rather than the notation.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  