 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I was trying to figure out a code about heap sort using binary tree that I saw on stackoverflow.com,  here is the code:  I don't really understand the right shift operator so I tried to replace with  but I don't understand  my question is what does this do? and can anyone tell me what should I do to replace this with something without a shift operator?  Someone's name is a new contributor to this site. Take care in asking for clarification, commenting, and answering. Check out our Code of Conduct.  11  1  The is a right-shift operator, not a left-shift operator. It effectively divides by 2. Your loop condition is emphatically not the same as the original. The original contains a test (abbreviated ); yours has no condition. That's worrying.  I observe that the macro is riskily written. It should be at minimum to ensure that if or is some sort of arithmetic expression, the condition is the same. I think it would benefit from another set of parentheses: to clarify that the applies to the result of the shift rather than to per se. Given the actual usage, it is OK, but general-purpose macros should use enough parentheses to ensure that they are safe against plausible misuse.  The function is dubious. Given big enough values, it will (wholly unnecessarily) incur signed integer overflow leading to undefined behaviour. It should use a temporary variable: which uses 4 pointer dereferences and 3 assignments, contrasted with 9 pointer dereferences, 3 assignments and 3 (potentially overflowing) arithmetic operations.  @jak: And what if and point to the same object? Don't try to be clever with swap. It's error-prone and much slower than necessary. It only made sense, if it ever did, on CPUs without multiple registers.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  