 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I was wondering if anyone has ever used linked lists to do heap sort and if they have could they provide the code. I have been able to do heapsort using arrays, but trying to do it in linked lists seems unpractical and just a pain in the you know where. I have to implement linked lists for a project Im doing, any help would be greatly appreciated.  10511 gold badge33 silver badges1111 bronze badges  3  5  Kind of flies right in the face of the definition of 'heap'. You could do it in a tree, but the heap via array was an intended abstraction to improve on that idea. You can do it in a linked list, but it will either be very slow (since you'll treat it like an array), or have so much extra book-keeping that it will become a tree (whether it is recognizable as one at that point is something else entirely. :) )  If you're not tied to a Heap sort, then I suggest a mergesort for linked lists. Reasonably easy to implement and rather efficient. Heap sorting linked lists, I'd rather not think about.  3 Answers 3  The answer is "you don't want to implement heap sort on a linked list."  Heapsort is a good sorting algorithm because it's and it's in-place. However, when you have a linked list heapsort is no longer because it relies on random access to the array, which you do not have in a linked list. So you either lose your in-place attribute (by needing to define a tree-like structure is space). Or you will need to do without them, but remember that a linked list is for member lookup. Which brings the runtime complexity to something like which is worse than bubblesort.  Just use mergesort instead. You already have the memory overhead requirement.  15.4k55 gold badges6161 silver badges9393 bronze badges  2  Thank you. That cleared up some questions I had about complexity, I didnt realize that o (n log n) didnt apply to heapsort when using linked list.  @OmnipotentEntity i think linked list implementation will become O(n^2) rather than O(n^2 log n). Since each heapify operation will take O(n) time and we have n such passes  Welcome to Stack Overflow! Although this code may help to solve the problem, it doesn't explain why and/or how it answers the question. Providing this additional context would significantly improve its long-term educational value. Please edit your answer to add explanation, including what limitations and assumptions apply.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  