 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  There is data returned from server containing an array of strings as hierarchy like this:  how do i create a tree data structure out of it to make Output the data in tree form.  like this:  what is the most simple way to do so ?  and is there any way to reverse it ? for example of asked knife i want to return house.kitchen.knife  please add the wanted structure as javascript array/object? and what you have tried.  @NinaScholz i have not tried anything yet because i couldn't find any answer for something like this using strings, i tried to separate the ( . ) but i failed.  4 Answers 4  You could take an array with nested arrays where the first element is the name.  For finding a wanted string, it uses a recursive approach by keeping the path to the actual elements for later joining a wanted string.  ... right, why an array and not a funky object? Glad that you asked. Arrays allows to maintain a specific order without relying on actual implementation of ordered objects.  338k2121 gold badges288288 silver badges345345 bronze badges  1  worked perfectly is is there any way to reverse it ? for example of asked knife i want to return house.kitchen.knife  1,80611 gold badge1313 silver badges1414 bronze badges  2  1  worked perfectly is is there any way to reverse it ? for example of asked knife i want to return house.kitchen.knife  here's one way to do it, might not be the most efficient, but works. If you don't want the leafs as empty objects, you can modify it as needed.  15.4k55 gold badges3636 silver badges3636 bronze badges  1  worked perfectly is is there any way to reverse it ? for example of asked knife i want to return house.kitchen.knife  Code below will give you the last string that includes the keyword. Let me know if this wasn't what you were looking for.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  