 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  This is a quicksort code based on the algorithm in the book(neapolitan). the results are true but at the end of debugging it has a run time error and I can't fix it. the error is heap corruption please help me to fix or improve it(if it's wrong). thanks for all answers.  the question is: Why this code has an error? How many errors do you see in this?  Use a different book. Here are some issues: "malloc", arrays instead of vectors, "void main()". Looks like your book was for the C language and changed the I/O to make it look C++.  I realized that there was no error and the error was PDB file error in visual studio. so the code and algorithm is correct. sorry for all respondents.  2 Answers 2  You have a so called "fence post error", where your array indices are off by one. The lines  and  propably cause the error, you start the index with 1 instead of 0. The code should be  note that you also have the same error in the second for-loop  before you answer the question, run the code with new changes you say. I edit the code but it already has the same error.  @illusionist_yahya before you post condescending comments, think about the answer. This answer is perfectly correct in that it points out a serious error in your code. Probably this was not the only error in your code, but you still need to fix this.  I realized that there was no error and the error was PDB file error in visual studio. so the code and algorithm is correct. sorry for all respondents.  The code should be: instead of and also change the line: with I debug it with no errors! good luck  When you borrow memory from HDD with new, index of array starts from 0 to n-1. so in the loops I and k are starts from 1 to n and it is a debugging error.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  