 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I want to sort these into order by name, so if I iterate through the hash table it will go in order  I tried doing this:  But it doesn't seem to work.  Edit: it occurs to me that perhaps a sorted hash table is an oxymoron. If so, what's the best way to get access to a sorted list of the things here?  12.7k2121 gold badges7474 silver badges101101 bronze badges  1  You are not having a hastable (aka object) nor a proper array. If you wat to have an object you should initialize it with not with . If you initialize with you have an Array, but then do not add to it by means of and but by . Only after you know what data structure you want, can you bother with sorting. (BTW: is the same as , use the second, it does not clog the code with string literals and lots of square brackets)  5 Answers 5  If you want to iterate through a hash table in JavaScript in order, make an array, populate it with the hash keys, and then sort it.  Just a note, the order of iteration of the statement can be arbitrary, there is nothing described in the ECMAScript specification about the order of enumeration of the properties, it is implementation dependent... no guarantees, use with care...  You can also build your array using . It's also a good practice to store the array length before the for loop's comparison step, so @CMS's for loop from above could be written like . This avoids repeatedly indexing into the property for a value that doesn't change.  I developed a function that sorts a hash table by the key, no matter if the value is a number or a string. It keeps the key if the table is an associated table.  @HaykSaakian, how is being the function coming along? as a human being, I really admire anyone's effort to sustain both state and function beyond the mind/body problem. bravo.  your parameters are and , but you're referencing some variables called and , which, as far as I can tell from the source you've provided, do not exist.  Also, I think what you're looking for is an associative array, which is not instantiated with the syntax. See here for more info:  EDIT: I don't think there's an array in Javascript that'll let you do what you want.  You can have plain old array, which will let you do the custom sorting or you can have an associative array, which will let you have the named values.  With the regular array, you can obviously iterate through the indexes.  With the associative array, you can iterate through the names by doing  54.1k2828 gold badges111111 silver badges163163 bronze badges  2  1  Be careful with that for...in syntax. It'll loop over all the properties the object in question has, which includes things other than array keys.  ^^ This is true, but shouldn't be an issue as long as it doesn't inherit from anything.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  