 How to begin with Competitive Programming?  At the very beginning to competitive programming, barely anyone knows the coding style to be followed. Below is an example to help you understand how problems are crafted in competitive programming.  Let us consider below problem statement as an example. Problem Statement:  Linear Search: Given an integer array and an element x, find if element is present in array or not. If element is present, then print index of its first occurrence. Else print -1.  Input: First line contains an integer, the number of test cases ‘T’. Each test case should be an integer. Size of the array ‘N’ in the second line. In the third line, input the integer elements of the array in a single line separated by space. Element X should be inputted in the fourth line, i.e., after entering the elements of array. Repeat the above steps second line onwards for multiple test cases.  Output: Print the output in a separate line returning the index of the element X. If the element is not present, then print -1.  C  C++  Python  Java  Common mistakes by beginners  Program should not print any extra character. Writing a statement like would cause rejection on any platform.  Input and output format specifications must be read carefully. For example, most of the problems expect a new line after every output. So if we don’t write printf(“\n”) or equivalent statement in a loop that runs for all test cases, the program would be rejected.  How to Begin Practice? You can begin with above problem itself. Try submitting one of the above solutions here. It is recommended solve problems on Practice for cracking any coding interview.  Please write comments if you find anything incorrect, or you want to share more information about the topic discussed above  Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here.  We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !  