 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  The Event Queue is a box that get messages and handles them.  Could you please say , where are the messages that PostMessage and SendMessage are stored? and how to tell who send what message? What variables can be inspected to get the information?  4,3681414 gold badges5656 silver badges9999 bronze badges  5  I re-tagged this as a winapi question since it is not specific to any particular language. Is this question related to your recent, now deleted question, where you ask about setting a child window to be topmost?  yes, it is. i need to find the reason why the same component is sending messages to the queue in one window, and not sending in another. i will try to peek at the queue and see if i can find that message.  It is a popup window that refresh the data, as the uesr type. Lets say its hovering data.  and are mutually exclusive (see Window Styles). If you are confused about the terminology, see Window Features for an introduction.  OK, so that's the problem. is sent to the parent of the window. Your window has no parent. You'll need to create a window to be that parent if you want an owner draw list box.  1 Answer 1  They are stored in an internal data structure associated with a thread. Note that each thread has zero or one message queues. A message queue is not created automatically for a thread, but created on demand when the thread calls a function that requires a message queue.  Note also that sent messages, those delivered by do not appear in the queue. Sent messages are synchronous and so not queued.  What variables can be inspected to get the information?  You cannot. You can use to find out whether or not the queue contains a specific message, or find the first message in a given range. But there is no functionality to dump the entire message queue.  581k4040 gold badges10031003 silver badges14201420 bronze badges  4  Small correction on sent messages: Sent messages across threads are in fact stored in a queue, and dispatched when one of the message retrieval functions is called, before that message retrieval function returns the first queued message.  @IInspectable I'd regard that as an implementation detail. They aren't queued in the sense that the are not queued messages is what I meant. They are synchronous.  The important point is, that sent messages across threads do not directly call the window procedure (as is the case with in-context sent messages). This is not just an implementation detail, because it has consequences for your code. Namely, the receiving thread must call a message retrieval function in order for a cross-thread sent message to get dispatched. A corollary of this is, that the window procedure need not be guarded against multi-threaded accesses.  @IInspectable I know all of this. But I think that the asker was asking about the message queue.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  