 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I'm trying to solve a homework problem for my data structure class. We're supposed to make a list of hospital patients, each patient has a name, age, gender, and a list of visits. Each visit has a date and a doctor.  The program should be able to add new patients, then separately add new visits into a patient's record by entering the patient's name (the problem assumes every patients' names are unique). The program should also be able to delete patients, delete visits, search patients by name, search visits by doctors, and display all patient data.  For the linked list, we're supposed to make our own linear singly linked list with a node class (not allowed to use existing data structures). My full code is the following:  This works just fine if all I did was add new patients. However, I have no idea how to add new visits to a patient, since I'll have to search a patient's name and add the new visit to that patient. The search method I have in mind is to iterate through each patient in the list in main(), then compare it to the search query like so:  How do I iterate through each patient in the linked list so I can access their names?  Not knowing the rest of the meat in your template (seriously poor choice of names there, btw, particularly if you used , which you shouldn't do but apparently are), we have to assume you have provided a way to reference a patient (singluar) in your patient list by the results of your search. Given that reference, managing/accessing that patient's list of visits should be achievable via methods exposed in your patient class. In short, you have to code it eventually.  @WhozCraig You could use a little less sass in your answer; some people are new to programming.  @WhozCraig But there's the catch: in order to search a patient by name, I think I'll need to access each patient's name from within the list object in the main() and then compare it with the user's search query in order to find a match. How do I access each patient's name from within the list object?  @Penny You write public methods in the class that let external users get that information about that instance of the class. See the getName() method in my answer.  @gowrath I've edited my question to include my full code. If I want to add a new visit to a patient, I suppose I'll have to iterate through each patient in the list and compare their names to the search query, but how can I do that in main()? What I have in mind is , then something like . How do I iterate through each patient in the list?  1 Answer 1  As your code stands, you can't change the visits for a patient because the visits list is a private member of the class. If it were public, then you could do something like  Following that, it may be tempting to just make the visits list public. However, note that this is considered bad style (and functionality) in OOP. Instead you should write mutator methods. That is, provide a public method in the class that takes a dat and a doctor as a parameter and in it, will create a new visit and append it to the visits list of the patient you called it one. Something like the method below. Similarly if you want people to be able to access the name of the patient, you can write a public method that will return the name of the patient:  So to use this for example, you could do:  I may have messed up some syntax and other things here (half wrote this on a phone), but the gist of it is what matters.  Post question edit answer:  To iterate through the list, write a method that returns the front of the list and use that as such:  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  