 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I'm trying to sort my rows according to the Status (B), according to a custom order. I used to have Status in A, and the code worked fine, but then wanted to add an additional column before it and everything's been scuppered. Now getting a 1004 error.  Screenshot added. I don't know if it's useful knowledge - B is populated with drop lists.  2 Answers 2  The error implies that it can't find a range to work with. As we are working with a table, the wont work.  This part hints that you have a table that your are trying to sort.  There's two approaches that I can think of now, to solve this:  Go to design tab  We can sort the table, but we need to know the table name + table column we want to sort. We get the table name here (click on the table) and in my example the table name is :  Then we can use this code (I have comment where you need to adjust the names)  6,10144 gold badges1919 silver badges4040 bronze badges  2  1  Thanks, this makes a lot of sense. I tried it, though, and I'm getting the same error: specifically, Application-defined or object-defined error. I wondered if it's because I have too many characters in my array, but it's 208 max, which I don't think should be a problem.  Strange and really interesting. I've really try to recreate 1004 error which many time is that the range is not ok or the worksheet is protected/hidden. Source.. But your code looks very good and stable. I've tried to add/remove columns etc. and with the example in the picture it works.  While the code I was using worked initially, I wanted to find another way of automating the custom sort, as this spreadsheet is being used by colleagues who have a very limited understanding of Excel.  I ended up sorting the table by a custom list, as suggested by Wizhi, but rather than typing out/inserting the code, I saved the custom list manually (without vba), and then recorded a macro, which I then applied to a button.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  