 How to setup Competitive Programming in Visual Studio Code for C++  GCC compiler installation  Steps for installation  Images for additional reference  Important Extensions  User Snippet/Startup Template for Competitive Programming  Below is the example for the template for competitive programming which programmers use. You can change this template according to your choice and preference:  C++  Steps to Create User Snippet/Startup Template  Steps to use User Snippet/Startup template in a C++ file  JSON Code for user snippet  Javascript  Images for additional reference  Basic Navigation  Select highlighted option to create a new snippet  “type cpp.json” the name of snippet, it should be a json file  Erase all this default code and paste the given json code  Note: In Prefix you have to use your personal choice word, here for example i am using gfg. This is very important because it is the key to call the template in your code.  Save this snippet by pressing CTRL+S.  Open a new cpp file and write your prefix that you wrote in the prefix box.(Here i had used gfg).  Input.txt And Output.txt (Alternative To Competitive-Programming helper Extension)  All coding sites use a file comparison method to check answers. It means they store the output through your program in a text file and compare it with the actual answer file. Therefore, you should also do so. What you need to do is create a folder and inside it create 2 files input.txt, output.txt.  First of all create the three required files. A cpp file containing your program.A text file input.txt and output.txt. Ensure that all three files are in the same directory. We need to divide the editor into three spaces  Main code space  Input Space  Output Space  Steps For Screen Setup  Images for additional reference  Note: When you make any changes in input don’t forgot to save it by pressing ctrl+S in input.txt box.  Note: Don’t forgot to add this code after your main ()  Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here.  We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !  