 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I have an array called products that is using the map method to list all the elements inside it and i am trying to sort those elements by the price prop. I've tried all types of sort methods and functions but i can't get it to work.  JS  I tried:  and  Essentially how could one sort a react component by its props?  4 Answers 4  So, yeah basically you need to sort it first and then map it, I've build an example for you:  33.8k66 gold badges5757 silver badges7171 bronze badges  5  If i apply sorting before or after map, i can't access prod.price, prod.name, etc. How would i do that then?  @Uriel Why you cant access and ? They are available inside the map function scope. Just copy and paste my code.  @Uriel Just updated my answer, probably the gt sign was the issue. The minus operation should sort it out.  You want to normalize, sort, and otherwise alter your data as you see fit before applying it to React components. In the following case, the array holds individual objects each with a property, so sort the array beforehand then map over the items.  The method sorts the elements of an array in place and returns the sorted array. The chained method will iterate over the sorted array in the order prescribed.  I believe the following is a valid solution. Note that price is seen as a . If it isn't, the sort may not work correctly.  consider we have an array of objects with name and price properties.  const Products = [  ]  We need to sort the Products array in ascending order by using its price property.  Now you can call map function with jsx element you want to add  PS: YOU can use this function directly in your code or use a helper function this way you make sure its sorted jsx.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  