 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  but program which i made is not working. I think both are same but my program giving me waste output.  Also i want to know in other program count is set to 5 for example and it should take 6 input starting from 0 but it is getting only 5,How?  You're storing six strings in an array with only enough room for four, and with no checks on the length of these strings (which have to be 9 characters or less). No wonder it doesn't work.  You have a 4-element array, and you are trying to put 6 elements in it. Try with 'char str[6][10],temp[10];' for better experience.  4 element ? i think array starts from 0 so it should be 5 element array(re-edited to store 5)  You think that wrong: a [4] array has 4 elements, valid indices are 0, 1, 2 and 3. See my previous suggestion. Your algorithm may work, but it ruins the variables, and presumably crashes afterwards. This is exactly why C is considered 'dangerous'.  Thank you,tevemadar.Now i just want to know how other program is storing only 5 elements on input 5 as count bcoz starting from 0 to 5 means to execute loop 6 times but loop executing only 5 times for input.  5 Answers 5  Use .  Please don’t use bubble sort. In C, you really do not have to write your own sorting algorithm outside of specialized needs.  Here is a program which will sort and print your inputted strings. Answering a little late, but just in case others have a similar question.  44911 gold badge33 silver badges1212 bronze badges  1  Please use the site as a general CS QA site, not a homework solving site. Don't provide direct solutions. Guide them where they are not correct.  39k44 gold badges3535 silver badges5555 bronze badges  3  Not in my program but the program found at beginnersbook.com/2015/02/… is taking only 5 input when for(i=0;i<=count;i++) is used and 5 is entered for count  This is not an answer, but some criticism of the code you refer to:  And the criticism:  (1) reads a number into count, and returns after that. It does not consume the line break(!)  (2) this loop does not print anything, just reads. However if you put  in its place, you will suddenly see that it asks for names 0...5, just skips the 0 automatically. That is where the line break is consumed, it reads an empty string. You can also make it appear, if instead of putting into the initial question, you put .  (3) in the printout the names appear below the title . But there is no linebreak in that printf. The thing is that the empty string is "smaller" than any other string, so it gets to the front of the list, and that is printed there first. If you do the 'trick' of appending a name after the initial number, the output will look different, there will be 6 names, and one of them appended directly to the title.  Plus there is the thing what you probably get from your compiler too: is a deadly function, forget its existence and use with stdin as appears in other answers.  9,82811 gold badge2525 silver badges4242 bronze badges  1  This code will sort array of characters (one string), but the question is to sort array of strings.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  