 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  How to sort the values of the map (descending). I know, I can use temp.values.toList()..sort().  But I want to sort in context of the keys like this:  3 Answers 3  This example uses a custom compare function which makes sort the keys by value. Then the keys and values are inserted into a because this kind of map guarantees to preserve the order. Basically the same as https://stackoverflow.com/a/29629447/217408 but customized to your use case.  532k177177 gold badges18471847 silver badges14741474 bronze badges  6  I'm just getting started with Dart and I also needed this solution/pattern for my project, but the Dart website does not explain this concept. Can you point me to a book or website that explains this and other concepts?  @GünterZöchbauer Is it possible to sort this descending order? And after that would it be possible to get the the top 3 values? Be it in ascending or descending? How would one get the top 3 largest value keys? Thanks  To reverse the order swap and in . To get the top 3 use The LinkedHashMap.fromIterable(...)` will then build the map only from these keys.  The SplayTreeMap has a named constructor which accepts map and a comparator which is used to sort given map while building new map. Since SplayTreeMap is a descendant of Map you can easily substitute it.  Please don't post only code as answer, but also provide an explanation what your code does and how it solves the problem of the question. Answers with an explanation are usually more helpful and of better quality, and are more likely to attract upvotes.  Unfortunately, this solution loss information if 2 values are the same. try with : which will return (C key is lost)  As it’s currently written, your answer is unclear. Please edit to add additional details that will help others understand how this addresses the question asked. You can find more information on how to write good answers in the help center.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  