 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I have a macro that's working on one computer just fine, however when I try to run it on another computer I get the following error:  Run-time error '-2146232576 (80131700)' Automation error  What are the bit level (32 or 64 bit) of the OS and of Excel on the non-working computer, and how do they compare to a PC where there's no error? Also compare your .NET install versions across the two machines.  Out of the very issue of your question, you may benefit from placing statement at the very top of your module to spot every typo: like that, maybe, should be  1 Answer 1  I am answering a question that is two and a half years old, but took me way too long to find an answer for this elsewhere, and this still appears near the top of google's results for this issue.  My solution was to install .NET 3.5 even though I had .NET 4.0 installed on my machine. You specifically need the 3.5 version to use . Install 3.5 and then close down excel completely and try again.  Here is how to add the library to a PC:  Search for "turn windows features on or off". Select the option when it comes up.  Select/check the box for .NET Framework 3.5 (you don't necessarily need to expand and check off the child items).  Let Windows download and install the required files.  Don't forget to close and reopen Excel (or whatever application you're using).  43311 gold badge77 silver badges1717 bronze badges  2  Thanks Dan! I found this was the solution for me as well. This is indeed 1 of the first Google search results for this problem! I had to do another Google search to find out how to install the .NET 3.5 framework and found it. I've suggested an appendage to your solution to include those instructions as well so it's all in 1 place.  It seems somewhat insane that one has to install .net 3.5 for this purpose even though has never been removed from any .NET framework.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  