 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I have a task to code the below class ... I have a problem in iterator() method I have many errors in it , I do not know how to do to correct it .. Can you suggest a way to correct the code under iterator() method ... You can as well see the other parts of the class ...I put the comments from eclipse next to each infected line.. thanks  You can't call on anything; your doesn't appear to have an implementation. You need to write a class that implements and fill in the , , and methods.  Louis Wasserman so you mean that is not necessary but ` while(itr.hasNext){` is necessary???  1 Answer 1  Your method needs to return an implementation of the interface. You'd likely want to do this as a private inner class, so it has access to the queue fields.  The iterator class needs to keep the current position, and step through your nodes on calls to .  You might want to implement fail-fast logic to prevent issues with updating the queue while iterating. Add a change counter to the queue, and increment on change (insert/remove). Remember the change counter at the time the iterator is created, and if different on a call to , throw .  145k99 gold badges126126 silver badges212212 bronze badges  2  what is the meaning of @Override and why you do multi subclasses in your code and what does this mean why you wrote thanks  See javadoc of @Override. --- Don't know what you mean by "multi subclasses". There is 1 inner class implementing an interface. No subclasses. --- Given your implementation, your nodes are in a circular chain of references, so if you keep advancing the iterator by going to , when would you stop? Answer: When you're back where you started.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  