 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  Iam doing this 0-1 knapsack problem in GFG practice portal. For small inputs the code is running fine! .For bigger inputs I am getting an "Time Limit Exceeded" error. I am new to DP concept can someone explain what is my mistake .I have used (recursion +memorization).  May I ask where do those magic numbers come from? The limits mentioned in the linked problem statement are all .  @Bob__ yes you are right the limit is 1000. I thought of taking '5' extra space i.e 1000+5=1005 for safety purpose to avoid boundary clash . But because of my bad math I made it 10005 instead of 1005.But that is not a concern because the extra space is not which is making the program to crash .If that is the case I would get an memory limit error.  1 Answer 1  takes an argument in bytes, so you cleared 1/4 of the array (depends on your int size). Fortunately the value -1 becomes the byte 0xff which, when placed in each of the bytes of the , represent -1 again. The value -1 is special in that regard, along with 0. Generally, it's better to use . (although that's complicated by the use of a two-dimensional array)  OK, you have recursive calls like:  and presumably you keep needing the same ones that you already calculated.  You need to keep a database of all the ones you already computed. A simple way to do that is to make a and the key is a structure containing the four values, and the result as the value. Wrap your real function (renamed) with a new function that first checks the database, and if not already present, calls the real function, stores the result in the database, and then returns.  Ah, you seem to already be implementing memoization via your global arrays... As Bob pointed out in a comment, the is inside the recursive function, so each call wipes out the saved values.  5,27333 gold badges2222 silver badges4141 bronze badges  1  Well, no, that's not the problem with that call to . That array should just be initialized outside the function.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  