 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  4 Answers 4  This will let you use your class objects like an array:  There's also a tutorial available if you need more help.  Addendum:  You mention that you wanted this to be available on a static class. That get's a little more complicated, because you can't use a static indexer. If you want to use an indexer, you'd need to access it off of a static Field or some such sorcery as in this answer.  I gave the most basic way to do what he wanted. I don't know how he stores the collected objects, so he can use anything he likes from within an Indexer. Inheriting from Dictionary will just make what amounts to an alias for a Dictionary of predetermined types unless he overrides the right methods.  @Jake Basile, How do I write Add method? and unlike Indexers, I wouldn't like to create its object and using it like static class.  Normal dictionary is your solution (it has Add, Remove, etc. and also indexer[string]), if you need specific actions for your class, create a class and inherit it from Dictionary<string, object>. Sometimes I see strange things in SO, I proposed this answer and I got -3 !!!  If you want to make this static, just make it a static member in another class.  Then you can access it as such, without having to initialize it:  If you want to be more adventurous and are using .NET 4 you can also use an Expando Object, like the ViewBag member available to controllers in ASP.NET MVC 3:  With the way you usually use the Session variable all you really need is a generic Dictionary collection like this one. You don't really need to write a class. But if you need to add extra functionality and/or semantics you could certainly wrap the collection with a class and just include and indexer.  75.4k1919 gold badges145145 silver badges182182 bronze badges  3  I want a simple class like Session. I should be able to a) Use without creating object, like static b) Using Add method to add elements c) accessing like array how can I achieve this?  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  