 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  c performance profiling time-limiting Details of the purpose of writing the program is given on the link : https://www.spoj.com/problems/CRCLE_UI/ And the error Time limit exceeded  Your program is too slow, or it contains an infinite loop and never properly terminates. The problem is in your code, which we can't see.  Please format your code properly, it will help you with reading/understanding your code and finding bugs. don't put the then part of an behind the . Also what is this supposed to do even? for loops are build out of: you don't have a variable or a guard and don't do a increment/decrement. Of course it doesn't end.  You might need a different approach than iterating to calculate the number of combinations of n element from k choice with some repetition  2 Answers 2  The problem is designed so that it is impossible to compute a result directly by exponentiating with n. Any such attempt will exceed the available resources. You must solve the problem using some number theory, particularly Fermat’s Little Theorem. Additionally, you cannot use to process the input numerals but must read them yourself character by character and reduce them using number theory.  Getting rid of it allows the program to halt for any value of (even and odd, so long as they're positive). Remember, the for loop's condition, , tests if is 0. If it's any non-zero value, it'll evaluate to true.  What your code did was essentially make it so that any odd-number entered as will never evaluate to 0. Take 1 for example: it's scanned in, in the for condition decrements it, the above line decrements it, so the next time the loop is evaluated , which evaluates to true. Every iteration after that will just be a more negative number, never 0.  5,66366 gold badges4242 silver badges6161 bronze badges  2  thanks for the answer, I tried it on SPOJ but the results are still the same. Time is limited.  did you notice this line? the loop never ends and never calls so it is an infinite loop.  Post as a guest  Not the answer you're looking for? Browse other questions tagged c or ask your own question.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  