 Implement a stack using singly linked list  Implement a stack using single linked list concept. all the single linked list operations perform based on Stack operations LIFO(last in first out) and with the help of that knowledge we are going to implement a stack using single linked list. using single linked lists so how to implement here it is linked list means what we are storing the information in the form of nodes and we need to follow the stack rules and we need to implement using single linked list nodes so what are the rules we need to follow in the implementation of a stack a simple rule that is last in first out and all the operations we should perform so with the help of a top variable only with the help of top variables are how to insert the elements let’s see  A stack can be easily implemented through the linked list. In stack Implementation, a stack contains a top pointer. which is “head” of the stack where pushing and popping items happens at the head of the list. first node have null in link field and second node link have first node address in link field and so on and last node address in “top” pointer. The main advantage of using linked list over an arrays is that it is possible to implements a stack that can shrink or grow as much as needed. In using array will put a restriction to the maximum capacity of the array which can lead to stack overflow. Here each new node will be dynamically allocate. so overflow is not possible. Stack Operations:  push() : Insert the element into linked list nothing but which is the top node of Stack.  pop() : Return top element from the Stack and move the top pointer to the second node of linked list or Stack.  C++  Java  Python3  C#  Javascript  Output:  Time Complexity:  The time complexity for all push(), pop(), and peek() operations is O(1) as we are not performing any kind of traversal over the list. We perform all the operations through the current pointer only.  Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here.  We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !  