 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I am now learning graph, when I read about implementing graph with adjacency list from online teaching source, I was confused about the function.  When is executed, the node with 1 value is created, and then is assigned with which is NULL. After that, is assigned with the . Then node 0 and 1 are connected, in the next half of the function, it goes the other way around. I don't know how this approach connects the the two nodes.  Your graph is undirected, so if U is connected to V, there is also a connection from V to U. You would do the same with an adjacency matrix, where you'd both and . Or is your question about the linked list that holds the adjacent nodes?  The program is right. I didn't write the program. I am just confused about the addEdge function.  An undirected edge (a, b) can be wiewed as a pair of directed edges ((a, b), (b, a)).  By the way, this sort of logic is much easier to do in C++, which offers you a rich library of "container classes" so that you don't have to do nearly as much error-prone "pointer twiddling" ...  2 Answers 2  Look its Very simple You're Not Actually Linking One Node To Other Node You're Just Creating a List Which is Containing That this Element is Connected to That Element  More explanation :--  Calling  then This Function is Creating a Simple Node of Name (dest)  and as the node Created You First Assigned next ptr of newNode to the Source('src') Node  And after that You assigned SrcNode to newNode(Very Same Way We use to swap Elements)  Until Now You have already Linked Both Src And Dest Nodes ( But Only One Way).  Now Repeat The Above Process from Dest to Src For Making it A Two Way Path.  Explanation2 :--  After This One Lines Comment everything and Add  First Will Output 1 Second Will Output 0  Even While Traversing In BFS Or DFS or another Way we will be needing the list we don't actually need to Connect Them..'  Hope You Understood!!!! Please Correct Me If am Wrong..🤗🤗🤗🤗  Your answer could be improved with additional supporting information. Please edit to add further details, such as citations or documentation, so that others can confirm that your answer is correct. You can find more information on how to write good answers in the help center.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  