 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  When debugging in PhpStorm, I am aware that you can right click on a variable in the 'Variables' pane, and select the context menu item 'Copy Value'. Is there a way to copy a data structure, such as an array or object?  If i right-click on 'someVariable' and select 'Copy Value', I will have the string on my clipboard.  If I right click on the line with the array and select 'Copy Value', I get '[1]' on my clipboard.  What I would really like is when I right click and 'Copy Value' on the array to have something like this on my clipboard:  Any ideas, or does someone need to make this plugin? ;)  2 Answers 2  Starting with PhpStorm version 9.0.0 (released July 8, 2015):  When debugging in PhpStorm, right click on a variable in the 'Variables' pane, and select the context menu item 'Copy Value As...' to copy the variable as result of one of print_r, var_export or json_encode.  With PhpStorm <9.0.0, I was using the following trick (PhpStorm 8.0.2):  When debugging in PhpStorm, right click on a variable in the 'Variables' pane, and select the context menu item 'Evaluate Expression...'.  The Evaluate Expression is opened with your variable in the "Expression:" field. In your case  In the "Expression:" wrap your variable with the var_export function. In your case: . (The second parameter is set to 1 to return the variable representation instead of outputting it)  Click the "Evaluate" button to see the result on the "Result:" text area.  Right click on your result and select "Copy Value" or use copy shortcut  Enjoy! (If you prefer a different output you can use other functions as well, for example )  2,64711 gold badge1818 silver badges1717 bronze badges  3  2  The whole procedure works for me so far, except that when i copy the result of the expression i always copy "can not get property". Any suggestions on that?  Okay, i managed to solve it. It didn't work with xdebug 2.2.5, so i updated to 2.3.2 and now it works!  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  