 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  In my Githubs repos documentation I want to represent a directory tree structure like this:  Is there a way to do that with Github flavoured markdown, besides just creating it with ascii art?  So basically like this question, but I'm wondering if there is a github specific solution.  6,91733 gold badges2828 silver badges3232 bronze badges  asked Jun 2 '14 at 7:23  user1694077user1694077  2  2  If you're using Atom editor, you can use this package to easily write ASCII trees: ascii-tree  Just created a Project for the same purpose. Its a python3 script. github.com/prncvrm/Project-Structure Visit, give a try and make issues or fork.  Note that in some cases, using "```bash ... ```" will highlight some of the words. Instead, you can use the "pre" tag: "<pre> ... </pre>".  4,07488 gold badges3232 silver badges4848 bronze badges  7  Such a great idea! Keeping my minutes in git and now I can update the README TOC easily. Thank you! Did you think to make it more configurable?  Not directly, no. You'd have to hand create it and put it in yourself. Assuming you are using a *nix box locally and are using utf, then tree will generate it nicely (I believe that is what generated the example you used above).  Assuming you mean the as the documentation target, then I think the only way you could automate it would be a git pre-commit hook that ran and embedded it into your readme file. You'd want to do a diff to make sure you only updated the readme if the output changed.  Otoh if you are maintaining seperate docs via github pages, then what you could do, is switch to using jekyll (or another generator) locally and pushing the static pages yourself. Then you could potentially implement the changes you want either as a plugin / shell script* / manual changes (if they won't vary much), or use the same method as above.  *If you integrate it into a commit hook, you can avoid adding any extra steps to changing your pages.  6,91733 gold badges2828 silver badges3232 bronze badges  6  1  Thanks for the answer, but that is not what I meant. I meant to ask if there is a way to represent a directory tree in your readme (with nesting etc.) not generate it. I've edited the question for clarity.  – user1694077  Jun 2 '14 at 8:49  As in one with links such as the sort you'd get in apache if you don't have an index.html?  No, what I mean is if there is an easy way to generate something like this: imgur.com/OHfWdLk in your readme.  – user1694077  Jun 2 '14 at 8:54  3  On a Mac, you can install the command with Homebrew, i.e. . Then from the directory I wanted to represent I ran and then copied and edited the text in my README.md file. Did exactly what I needed!  Why this answer is accepted? There are many good utility available to do this. Please don't do this manual. Check out this. github.com/michalbe/md-file-tree  Usage  To generate for any absolute path: mddir /absolute/path  To generate for a relative path: mddir ~/Documents/whatever.  The md file gets generated in your working directory.  Currently ignores node_modules, and .git folders.  Troubleshooting  If you receive the error 'node\r: No such file or directory', the issue is that your operating system uses different line endings and mddir can't parse them without you explicitly setting the line ending style to Unix. This usually affects Windows, but also some versions of Linux. Setting line endings to Unix style has to be performed within the mddir npm global bin folder.  Line endings fix  Cd into that folder  brew install dos2unix  Example generated markdown file structure 'directoryList.md'  Thanks for the node package. A couple of comments 1) is there an option to get the output just as text instead of as JSON. I had to further parse the JSON output before I could paste it into markdown. 2) Is there a way to make it so you don't have to run it from the directory? For instance I'd like to run from my project directory and paste the contents of dir-struct.txt directly into my markdown.  on windows u can use the "tree" command, and i betcha u can find one for linux too  Clearly tree has better output, but I like this way because it only shows the relevant source files and not the .git directory and compiled binaries.  Once you have installed the utility then you can simply run to get all files tree  You can also check this tree-extended package. It can be used as a command line app by using node >= 6.x.  It is very similar to but also has the option of configuring the max deep in the tree, that is one of the awful things of it. Also you can filter by using file.  4,43433 gold badges2626 silver badges6161 bronze badges  1  1  note to others: To convert something like this to markdown, just include the three backticks.  Yes there is a way, In your readme.md file just copy & paste the tree you have generated in between three of back quotes like as if you are writing a code in markdown, it will work. Please see the below attachment.  Simple command will do the job. For example: will print the tree structure of your current working directory and write it to . Then open readme.md file in one of text editor like Sublime and wrap its content within a pair of triple backticks (```).  FYI: you might have to brew install tree in OSX if it's not already installed. In Linux and Windows it should just work fine. Also in windows you might have to replace hyphen with forward slash.  Also, there is a DOS comnand "tree". You can displays directory paths and files in each subdirectory with command:  If you are working on windows write inside the directory you want to achieve that in command prompt. This should do your job. you can copy and paste the output on markdown surrounded my triple back ticks i.e. '''{tree structure here}'''  There is a way to get a output to the console similar to the output from tree, by typing the following command into your terminal:  Then the output can be copied and encapsuled inside a .md file with code block back tics, like mentioned in Jonathas B.C.'s answer.  But be aware that it also outputs all node modules folders in a node project. And in tree you can do something like  I just like to generate it with UTF-8 and link it to every file and folder to navigate really easily. Please take a look at the example here.  76211 gold badge99 silver badges2121 bronze badges  1  Instead if voting it down. Tell me what additional information do you need. You can generate a markdown however you like. I do it with my own personal library, but my preference may be different than yours.  This python module (I am the author) generates directory-trees dynamically based on a specific tag added to the project's files.  For example, inserting in a file a comment line like the following:  Will generate an entry for this file in the generate tree. The tree, by default, shows only the files that have been tagged.  A generated tree looks like this:  and can directly be exported in makdown format:  a documented folder this is file 3 this is file 4 a documented file a documented folder with no documented files a text file this is file 1 a python script The main readme\  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  