 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I want to use the function on a javascript array, but I would like it to operate in reverse order.  The reason is, I'm rendering stacked React components in a Meteor project and would like the top-level element to render first while the rest load images below.  prints out but I wish there was a mapReverse() that printed  To order the elements I set the z-index by the array index. I suppose I could set the z-index to be negative.  On a side note, are you actually using the array that returns? Otherwise, you ought to consider .  13 Answers 13  If you don't want to reverse the original array, you can make a shallow copy of it then map of the reversed array,  3,15911 gold badge1111 silver badges1616 bronze badges  8  1  I ended up just using the negative index to specify the z-index, but in the way I framed the question this is the most correct.  Why do we need .slice(0) ? Why not myArray.reverse() instead of myArray.slice(0).reverse() ? Looks like the answer for my comment is here: stackoverflow.com/questions/5024085/…  Haradzieniec - It goes with the particulars for how the original question was framed, in that the original ordering was needed to set a Z-index css property, but printed in reverse.  is not used here, so I don't think this is what OP was looking for? (it's still a good solution)  noice (if you are looking to perform a reduce anyways) - MDN: The reduceRight() method applies a function against an accumulator and each value of the array (from right-to-left) to reduce it to a single value.  This seems like a strange way to go, but the reduceRight approach is also odd if you're wanting access to the index in addition to the element, don't really want to do a reduce, etc. In my case, this was the cleanest solution.  If you need to do further work inside the map, using arr[...] doesn't require a second copy or manipulating the original array. Forgot about the 3rd parameter. What I was looking for!  I prefer to write the mapReverse function once, then use it. Also this doesn't need to copy the array.  Here is my TypeScript solution that is both O(n) and more efficient than the other solutions by preventing a run through the array twice:  I You pass the array to map Revers and in the function you return the reversed array. In the map cb you simply take the values with the index counting from 10 (length) down to 1 from the passed array  That would be my solution in general, but in the setup I'm using the top card is placed with the last index. I guess just some better indexing could solve the problem.  Just as a note, this will reverse the original array in place, meaning it will alter the order of the array destructively.  will also reverse the in-place. As the (unexpected) side effect, your get reversed after executing these codes. The same problem similar to this answer  An old question but for new viewers, this is the best way to reverse array using map  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  