 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  Im coding a problem(reference --http://www.codechef.com/FEB11/problems/THREECLR/)  The below is my code  I have checked this code on online judges like Ideone and have been getting the desired results. But when i submit this code, I get a Time Limit exceeded error. I have tested this code on Ideone with a sufficiently large set of input and the time taken to execute was lesser than 1 second. It seems to have a bug or a memory leak that seems to have drained all the happiness from my life. Any pointers/tips would be greatly appreciated.  Thanks  EDIT1 --  Thanks for the replies guys, I ran the code with the input generated by the following python script --  And my code took a whopping 71052 milliseconds to execute on the input provided by the above script. I have to now get down the execution time to 8000 milliseconds to the very least. Im working on trying out replacing the HashMaps and the HashSets as suggested by rfeak and am also wondering if memoization would help in this scenario. Please advise.  EDIT2 -- Recoding my algo using arrays seems to have worked. Only just though, resubmitting the same code at different times gives me Accepted Solution and Time limit exceeded :D I have though of another way to use hashmaps to optimize a little further. Thanks a load for the help guys !  have you considered that they are feeding it a much larger input and your code takes too long to process it?  Do you know how big the dataset they are submitting is? Can you get ahold of that data set?  My guess is you are expecting an input which does not happen or there is an input which causes your program to go into an infinite loop.  Can you explain the idea behind the code and what its complexity is? Have you tried submitting the code without the lines? You should never submit code with error checking to an online judge. This will only slow your program down, and a respectable judge will never feed you bad data.  A try/catch block is for free when no exception gets caught, isn't it. He makes no error checking, he makes (sort of) exception swallowing.  1 Answer 1  How much memory does your program use when you run locally?  If they are running your Java program without enough memory, you could be spending a lot of time trying to garbage collect. This could destroy your 1 second time.  If you need to save time and memory (To be determined ...), I have 2 suggetions.  Replace with . Similar interface, much faster implementation, and uses much less memory. Especially with the numbers I see in the problem.  Replace with an - The Integer key can simply be an int (primitive) index into your array. Again, faster and smaller.  Definitely get rid of the and . The numbers given in the problem are all small enough for an array (or might be even faster than that, but I don't think you need it here) to be enough.  Thanks for the suggestion. Im not very clear on the BitSet implementation. JavaDoc says they contain the bit representation of a number and support logical operations on them. I would not primarily want to be doing that kind of manipulation on the input data but would definitely try that out if it is the most practical and best approach. Please advise.  @JCoder - Ignore how it describes it's internal representation. It's best to think about a BitSet as a Set of int (primitives). The set either contains an integer, or it doesn't. To see if it does, call BitSet.get(someInt). To put an integer into the set call BitSet.set(someInt). In this way it behaves exactly as a Set<Integer>. ... Now, if you're really interested in why it's smaller than a Set<Integer>, I can add to my answer.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  