 Java Program to Perform Binary Search on ArrayList  Last Updated : 07 Jan, 2021  The ArrayList class is a part of the collection framework and is present in java.util package. It provides us with resizable or dynamic arrays in java. It is quite slower than standard arrays but can be helpful in some programs where we need to come up with cleaner and shorter code and lots of manipulation of an array is needed.  The most effective algorithm to search an element in a sorted array is the binary-search algorithm. In this article, we are going to implement this using the Java ArrayList.  Approaches:  There are three ways to implement binary search on java ArrayList which are listed below briefing the concept followed by a java example for the implementation part.  Iterative Binary Search (Normal Binary Search Using Loop)  Recursive Binary Search (Binary Search Using Recursion)  Using the built-in binarySearch method of java collections.  Method 1: Iterative Binary Search  In this approach, we ignore half of the elements after one comparison. As the array is sorted.  Compare the given value to be searched with the middle element.  If it matches with the middle element we return x.  If it is greater than the middle element then do the same for the right subarray .ie. the size of the array is reduced to half and the array we are left with to compare is the right subarray.  If it is less than the middle element then do the same for the left subarray .ie. the size of the array is reduced to half and the array we are left with to compare is the left subarray.  If we do not return anything but our search ends, then return -1, it implies that the element is not present in that array.  Java  Output  Method 2: Recursive Binary Search  Compare the element t be searched (x) with the middle element.  If x matches with the middle element, we return the mid index.  Else If x is greater than the mid element, then x can only lie in the right half subarray after the mid element. So we recur for the right half.  Else (x is smaller) recur for the left half.  Java  Output  Method 3: Using the built-in binarySearch method of Collections Class  In this method, we just call the binarySearch() method of collections framework and parse our sorted ArrayList and the value to be searched into the method, This will return the index of the element if present and -1 otherwise.  Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here.  We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !  