 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I'm trying to create a map or dictionary style data structure in JavaScript. Each string key points to an array of int, and I'd like to do a few simple things with the arrays that the keys point to.  I have a bunch of animals, each with an ID (1,2,3,...). I want to put these in a map so I know that 1,4,5 are cats and that 2,3,6 are dogs.  Here's what I have for code to explain it better.  1) How would I add something to an array? For example, if animal #7 is a cat, would the following code be correct?  2) How would I sort the map so that the keys are ordered by the number of items in their arrays? In this case, myMap["cats"] would be in front of myMap["dogs"] because the array for "cats" has more items than the array for "dogs". Would the following code be correct?  If there's a much more efficient way to do this in JavaScript, please let me know. Thank you so much!  1,59055 gold badges2020 silver badges2727 bronze badges  1  1  Be careful with : if you pass a single number to it, it will initialize an array with that length, not an array with that number inside. Using array literals such as is preferred.  3 Answers 3  As for the second question, you'll need another Array to maintain a sort order of the map keys.  Then you can iterate the to obtain the collections in your sorted order.  2) Object keys are inherently unordered and as such they do not have a function :-) You could add a function to your map to return the values in sorted order however:  Some notes:  Don't use or unless you need to (e. g. to create a string of 11 dashes). Instead use the array literal syntax . It's clearer (and in most browsers actually faster).  When in doubt, open up MDN and the console in your browser and try it out.  How would I sort the map so that the keys are ordered by the number of items in their arrays?  Maps are not ordered — there is no difference between and .  As for the rest of your question — yes, that's all correct. But instead of writing this:  @MartinCortez - yes, but that's because they are different objects not because their keys are in different source order ;-) jsfiddle.net/dvdHq/2  @SeanVieira i'm not questioning why they're different. i'm just pointing out that it's wrong to say that there is no difference.  @MartinCortez: That makes no sense. You must realize that also evaluates to (because each occurrence of instantiates a new object); would you therefore insist that there is a difference between and ?  i'm not insisting anything besides that it's wrong to say there is no difference, as you did above  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  