 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  Whenever I debug it blows off and gives me error saying "0x800a138a - JavaScript runtime error: Function expected". I checked multiple times if I am missing any parenthesis but I cannot see anything.  @RayonDabre this is happening on page load. I think i might be missing some parenthesis or semicolon.  Sounds like you've passed some other type of argument (or not argument at all) instead of a function. Also, in your code must return a function. Does it? If it returns an object instead, you've missed the dot and the method name, since an argumentlist follows: . Notice two sequential s here.  4 Answers 4  Depends on how you run it. I would expect a browser to not have an issue with is, but I don't know how you ran this code.  One more thing that Lint shows that could be relevant: The ; on the line before the last. This one is not needed. Can you try it?  We can never call them syntax errors, this is just a warning which need to ne avoided, but this is not the cause in this case..  Just saying, a trailing comma will trigger a parsing time syntax error, and only in older IEs.  like mentioned before the trailing comma is the problem in your code. A trailing comma in JavaScript object literals is valid since the ECMAScript 5 specification and so it is valid in the most modern browser. Nevertheless there are problems with IE and in older browser you get syntax errors.  I just optimized it with the help of WebStorm and this is the output of WebStorm :-) (There was also an unnecessary semicolon in your code):  11.6k33 gold badges1818 silver badges4343 bronze badges  2  according to the article you shared we should define validator like this: var validator = $("#Details").data("kendoValidator");  This part is to add rules to your validator. on your call(save/update) it should trigger the defined validation rules as in the given link he is doing on .  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  