 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I want to write a function called print_iterator_explicit() which prints all of the items in a linked list by making use of the Iterator. However, you are not permitted to use the standard "for ... in" loop syntax - instead you must create the Iterator object explicitly, and print each item by calling the next() method  Use the iter() and next() methods in your function definition - and remember to handle the StopIteration exception!  Below is what I've tried, but the print_iterator_explicit seems to have some problem which I can only print the first element but not the whole list.  First, you almost never want to call dunder methods like and . Use and . Also, you should check , or sometimes , but never except in very rare cases.  You're only calling once, why would you expect it to print multiple times? You're still going to need a loop. If you can't use a loop, (a silly restriction, but whatever) that only leaves loops  One last thing: An iterator class should almost always have an method that just does a .  4 Answers 4  Just as mentioned by @abarnert , you always need a method for the iterator class.  Now that your class is iterable, you can use "for...in" loop:  A little side note: your variable is behaving like a . In a linked list the first node is called the head and the last is called the tail  To iterate all of the items, you need some kind of loop—whether explicit or implicit.  You’re not allowed to use , which is the most obvious solution, but you can do a loop with :  This is, in fact, very close to what a loop does under the covers.  Or you can loop implicitly, say, with the constructor—or, even better, just by splatting the iterator:  (Of course if this is a homework assignment, that's the kind of answer that will get you an F if the teacher thinks you don't understand why it works, but maybe an A if you can explain it…)  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  