 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I have made a heap class and I am trying to make a PriorityQueue class as well so both of them can work together. However, I need help on the Priority Queue part of my code. I have already made a working Heap. I tried looking up help on the internet but I keep getting answers with people using either the "queue" or "heapq" python implementation. Could anyone help me on how to make a working Priority Queue class? I have the basic function names written down but I have no idea on where to go from there. Please I have been stuck on this for awhile and really need some help. Here is my working Heap Code.  So this is working but like I previously stated I am having trouble on how to make a priority queue out of this? I know asking for code is wrong, but I'm desperate could anyone help me out here? I have the basic rundown on what I want my priority code to do..  Is there a specific place you're getting stuck? For the most part, the functions you have stubbed out in the priority queue class just need to call functions from the heap class. Are you having trouble figuring out what that mapping is?  @seaotternerd Yeah that is what I am having trouble with is the mapping to go along side of setting the priority.  There are a few ways you could potentially handle priority. The simplest and most versatile is probably to make a key-value pair class, where each object holds two things: a priority and the thing being stored. It should also have a comparison operator that compares based on the priority. In insert, you can create a key value pair based on the input to insert and then put it into the heap.  1 Answer 1  I think the key idea you're missing to implement your class is that each instance should have a instance as an attribute. Set it up in :  When a user makes a call to a method, that method will mostly just make a call to a method of , with just a little extra work modifying the arguments or the return value. The items to into the heap should probably be tuples, since they will compare appropriately (higher priority items comparing higher).  Note that if you compare code written for with your , you'll need to modify the logic for the indexes and priorities, since implements a zero-indexed min-heap, and your code implements a one-indexed max-heap.  90.8k1111 gold badges107107 silver badges155155 bronze badges  5  So for the insert method in my Heap class would go from ` def insert(self, item):` into ` def insert(self, priority,value)`? Or am I going about this all wrong. Sorry I have been reading up on Priority Queues and I'm still trying to figure it all out.  No, you don't need to change the class API at all. It's where the class uses a heap that you add in the priority. I'd implement like this: (note the doubled parentheses).  Not quite. There are a few more things you need to do. First off, you need to make sure the heap is not empty. Next, you strip off the priority. Finally, you need to return the result.  Okay so for the first part about not being empty I did the following. How would I go about stripping the priority. Sorry for all these questions but I don't really understand the concept of priority.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  