 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I'm trying to write in pseudo code a MapReduce task that returns the items sorted in descending order. For example: for the wordcount task, instead of getting:  I want the output to be:  Any ideas of how to do it? I know how to do it in ascending order (replace the keys and value in the mapper job) but not in descending order.  @BinaryNerd This isn't secondary sort if I'm not mistaken. This is just a sort by value which is easier than the secondary sort.  Sorting by value is a secondary sort in hadoop mapreduce, the primary sort is on the key.  @BinaryNerd In secondary sort, the sort by the value of the same key. In my case, I don't care what the keys are.  1 Answer 1  Here you can take help of below reducer code to achieve sorting in descending order .  Assuming you have written mapper and driver code where mapper will produce output as (Banana,1) etc  In reducer we will sum all values for a particular key and put final result in a map then sort the map on the basis of values and write final result in cleanup function of reduce.  Thank you for the answer! I understood from your answer how to sort the values of the same key. I don't think the Map of all the strings and integers would be saved through this all process. Also, how would I know when to call the cleanup function?  Ok , good. What about the first thing I mentioned? I don't think the Map of the keys and values is saved and being updated through the whole process, I think the only variable that does that is Counter. Am I wrong?  I didnt get what you meant by sort the values of the same key and during computation all maps will be in memory.  What I want is to sort the by the values no matter what the key is. You set a linkedhashmap: public Map<String , Integer > map = new LinkedHashMap<String , Integer>(); and said it would collect all the values for all the keys, right? so, I don't think it does.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  