 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I have written a python code to solve the missionaries and cannibals problem using recursive dfs in python. However I keep getting this error: RecursionError: maximum recursion depth exceeded  I have no idea what to do about it, and I have been stuck at it for so long. Any help or suggestion will be life saving for me. Thanks. Here is the code:  Please fix your indentation. We can't tell what your code actually does if the indentation is wrong.  Python's default recursion depth is 1000. It's possible to increase that limit, but with correct logic your DFS should not need to recurse that deeply (unless you have a huge number of missionaries & cannibals).  1 Answer 1  1: your list 'visited' didn't properly keep track of all the states. This can easily be fixed by making visited a global variable (by putting it in front of the def main() as done in the final solution)  2: The program was searching possibilities that weren't going to ever help (eg: bringing the same guy back and forth), this  didn't solve this because it's never the same root object (even if the root.state.missionaries, cannibals and boat are the same value), so I changed this using a dictionary object:  This results in the following code (it returns an answer, I'm not sure if it's the correct one because I don't know the missionaries and cannibals problem)  PS. as @PM 2Ring said, for next time: please fix your indentation when asking questions, it makes reading your code easier to understand. You can do this by selecting all your code, adding a tab to all lines selected and then copying it. Before you paste it make sure there's an empty line. :)  3,37511 gold badge1414 silver badges3333 bronze badges  1  1  thanks a lot Nathan! You saved me a lot of trouble :) and thanks for the tip regarding indentation. This was my first time asking on stack overflow and I struggled with fixing my indentation. Will make sure to fix it properly in future. Thanks a lot!  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  