 Multistage Graph (Shortest Path)  A Multistage graph is a directed graph in which the nodes can be divided into a set of stages such that all edges are from a stage to next stage only (In other words there is no edge between vertices of same stage and from a vertex of current stage to previous stage). We are given a multistage graph, a source and a destination, we need to find shortest path from source to destination. By convention, we consider source at stage 1 and destination as last stage. Following is an example graph we will consider in this article :-  The Brute force method of finding all possible paths between Source and Destination and then finding the minimum. That’s the WORST possible strategy.  Dijkstra’s Algorithm of Single Source shortest paths. This method will find shortest paths from source to all other nodes which is not required in this case. So it will take a lot of time and it doesn’t even use the SPECIAL feature that this MULTI-STAGE graph has.  Simple Greedy Method – At each node, choose the shortest outgoing path. If we apply this approach to the example graph give above we get the solution as 1 + 4 + 18 = 23. But a quick look at the graph will show much shorter paths available than 23. So the greedy method fails !  The best option is Dynamic Programming. So we need to find Optimal Sub-structure, Recursive Equations and Overlapping Sub-problems.  Optimal Substructure and Recursive Equation :- We define the notation :- M(x, y) as the minimum cost to T(target node) from Stage x, Node y.  This means that our problem of 0 —> 7 is now sub-divided into 3 sub-problems :-  Recursion Tree and Overlapping Sub-Problems:- So, the hierarchy of M(x, y) evaluations will look something like this :-  So, here we have drawn a very small part of the Recursion Tree and we can already see Overlapping Sub-Problems. We can largely reduce the number of M(x, y) evaluations using Dynamic Programming. Implementation details: The below implementation assumes that nodes are numbered from 0 to N-1 from first stage (source) to last stage (destination). We also assume that the input graph is multistage.  Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here.  We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !  