 m-WAY Search Trees | Set-1 ( Searching )  The m-way search trees are multi-way trees which are generalised versions of binary trees where each node contains multiple elements. In an m-Way tree of order m, each node contains a maximum of m – 1 elements and m children. The goal of m-Way search tree of height h calls for O(h) no. of accesses for an insert/delete/retrieval operation. Hence, it ensures that the height h is close to log_m(n + 1). The number of elements in an m-Way search tree of height h ranges from a minimum of h to a maximum of . An m-Way search tree of n elements ranges from a minimum height of log_m(n+1) to a maximum of n An example of a 5-Way search tree is shown in the figure below. Observe how each node has at most 5 child nodes & therefore has at most 4 keys contained in it.  The structure of a node of an m-Way tree is given below:  C++  Python3  Here, count represents the number of children that a particular node has  The values of a node stored in the array value  The addresses of child nodes are stored in the child array  The MAX macro signifies the maximum number of values that a particular node can contain  Searching in an m-Way search tree:  Searching for a key in an m-Way search tree is similar to that of binary search tree  To search for 77 in the 5-Way search tree, shown in the figure, we begin at the root & as 77> 76> 44> 18, move to the fourth sub-tree  In the root node of the fourth sub-tree, 77< 80 & therefore we move to the first sub-tree of the node. Since 77 is available in the only node of this sub-tree, we claim 77 was successfully searched  C++  Python3  search():  The function search() receives three parameters  The first parameter is the value to be searched, second is the address of the node from where the search is to be performed and third is the address of a variable that is used to store the position of the value once found  Initially a condition is checked whether the address of the node being searched is NULL  If it is, then simply a NULL value is returned  Otherwise, a function searchnode() is called which actually searches the given value  If the search is successful the address of the node in which the value is found is returned  If the search is unsuccessful then a recursive call is made to the search() function for the child of the current node  searchnode():  The function searchnode() receives three parameters  The first parameter is the value that is to be searched  The second parameter is the address of the node in which the search is to be performed and third is a pointer pos that holds the address of a variable in which the position of the value that once found is stored  This function returns a value 0 if the search is unsuccessful and 1 if it is successful  In this function initially it is checked whether the value that is to be searched is less than the very first value of the node  If it is then it indicates that the value is not present in the current node. Hence, a value 0 is assigned in the variable that is pointed to by pos and 0 is returned, as the search is unsuccessful  Writing code in comment? Please use ide.geeksforgeeks.org, generate link and share the link here.  We use cookies to ensure you have the best browsing experience on our website. By using our site, you acknowledge that you have read and understood our Cookie Policy & Privacy Policy Got It !  