 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  Today I ran my script for filesystem indexing to refresh RAID files index and after 4h it crashed with following error:  Server is equipped with 16gb RAM and 24gb SSD swap. I highly doubt my script exceeded 36gb of memory. At least it shouldn't  Script creates index of files stored as Array of Objects with files metadata (modification dates, permissions, etc, no big data)  I've already experiend weird node issues in the past with this script what forced me eg. split index into multiple files as node was glitching when working on such big files as String. Is there any way to improve nodejs memory management with huge datasets?  29 Answers 29  If I remember correctly, there is a strict standard limit for the memory usage in V8 of around 1.7 GB, if you do not increase it manually.  In one of our products we followed this solution in our deploy script:  There would also be a new space command but as I read here: a-tour-of-v8-garbage-collection the new space only collects the newly created short-term data and the old space contains all referenced data structures which should be in your case the best option.  I am developing with angular 4 and getting same issue, what should be yourFile.js file for angular app ?  @VikramSingh are you using or do you distribute the result of the /dist folder by another webserver like express? But if your Angular project is using more than the standard 1.7GB Memory than you'll maybe have an architectural problem in your application? It looks like that you are using the development env with nmp start maybe this is a solution for it github.com/mgechev/angular-seed/issues/2063  If you want to increase the memory usage of the node globally - not only single script, you can export environment variable, like this:  Then you do not need to play with files when running builds like .  I'm getting the same error even after setting to 4096 or more. When I run the command , I see some processes running with commands like . What could be the reason?  @AyeshWeerasinghe probably libraries or scripts that you are using or running have a hardcoded parameter which overrides the exported env variable.  Just in case anyone runs into this in an environment where they cannot set node properties directly (in my case a build tool):  You can set the node options using an environment variable if you cannot pass them on the command line.  11.8k66 gold badges3333 silver badges4242 bronze badges  3  4  Can you please explain what you mean, when you say " ...set the node options using an environment variable.. "?  @Keselme An environment variable is a variable that has been set on the server that all processes can read the data from. Open an SSH terminal to your server and type: MY_VAR=hello then type: echo $MY_VAR. You will see that it prints "hello" in the terminal. You've just set an environment variable and read it back.  Here are some flag values to add some additional info on how to allow more memory when you start up your node server.  1,66211 gold badge1515 silver badges2626 bronze badges  4  1  can one keep increasing it in powers of 2? should one set it larger than system memory? if not what's a good system memory to max-old-space-size ratio?  @HarryMoreno You can actually put in any number value you like. Doesn't have to be in power of 2. Not sure about the ratio though. It's only a max limit, it wont be using all the memory. I would just set it as high as you need then scale back if needed.  I'll give system ram - 1gb a try. Assuming this vm is only for running this node app.  @HarryMoreno A good system memory to max-old-space-size ratio depends entirely on what else is running on your machine. You can increase it in powers of two - or you can use any number. You can set it larger than system memory - but you will hit swap issues.  I just faced same problem with my EC2 instance t2.micro which has 1 GB memory.  I resolved the problem by creating swap file using this url and set following environment variable.  Thanks. I'm now able to "yarn build" Strapi on my $5/mo Linode nanode instance after I created a 2GB swap file and added an "ENV NODE_OPTIONS=--max_old_space_size=1024" to my Dockerfile. Not sure the swap step was needed in my case but it can't hurt.  exactly, with small machines you may need to make it smaller rather than bigger, e.g. export NODE_OPTIONS=--max_old_space_size=1024  I encountered this issue when trying to debug with VSCode, so just wanted to add this is how you can add the argument to your debug setup.  You can add it to the property of your config in .  No, is a configuration file specifically for running an application from VS Code.  i was struggling with this even after setting --max-old-space-size.  Then i realised need to put options --max-old-space-size before the karma script.  also best to specify both syntaxes --max-old-space-size and --max_old_space_size my script for karma :  "best to specify both syntaxes --max-old-space-size and --max_old_space_size" -- you do not need to do this, they are synonyms. From nodejs.org/api/cli.html#cli_options: "All options, including V8 options, allow words to be separated by both dashes (-) or underscores (_)."  I had a similar issue while doing AOT angular build. Following commands helped me.  4k is not enough. developer was keep on 4k as static. good solution from developer. Also when I explore the npm page, I couldnt saw the info about change the limit value. Actually, There is a solution but didnt worked.  After running this i type and it stopped there. it is not showing any progress not giving any error after this line . It was playing statue so, project cannot be run.  I've faced this same problem recently and came across to this thread but my problem was with App. Below changes in the node start command solved my issues.  Syntax  Example  Why size is 16000 in max-old-space-size?  Basically, it varies depends on the allocated memory to that thread and your node settings.  How to verify and give right size?  This is basically stay in our engine . below code helps you to understand the Heap Size of your local node v8 engine.  I just want to add that in some systems, even increasing the node memory limit with , it's not enough and there is an OS error like this:  In this case, probably is because you reached the max mmap per process.  You can check the max_map_count by running  and increas it by running  and fix it to not be reset after a reboot by adding this line  Recently, in one of my project ran into same problem. Tried couple of things which anyone can try as a debugging to identify the root cause:  As everyone suggested , increase the memory limit in node by adding this command:  Here i have defined for my application was 1536 (as my kubernetes pod memory was 2 GB limit , request 1.5 GB)  So always define the based on your frontend infrastructure/architecture limit (little lesser than limit)  One strict callout here in the above command, use after command not after the filename .  If you have config file then check following things:  worker_connections: (for heavy frontend applications) [nginx default is connections per , which is too low for modern applications]  use: (efficient method) [nginx supports a variety of connection processing methods]  http: add following things to free your worker from getting busy in handling some unwanted task. (client_body_timeout , reset_timeout_connection , client_header_timeout,keepalive_timeout ,send_timeout).  Remove all logging/tracking tools like (SEO) etc middlewares or turn off.  Now code level debugging: In your main file , remove unwanted which is just printing a message.  Now check for every server route i.e below scenarios:  // do you really need to wait for data or that api returns something in response which i have to wait for?? , If not then modify like this:  else part: if there is no error coming then simply , NO .  error part: some people define as or which creates confusion and mistakes. like this:  remove , other unused libraries using command.  In the axios service file , check the methods and logging properly or not like :  Save yourself from using etc on accessive large dataset. (which i can see in your above shown logs too.  Last but not least , for every time when your application crashes or pods restarted check the logs. In log specifically look for this section: This will give you why , where and who is the culprit behind the crash.  if you want to change the memory globally for node (windows) go to advanced system settings -> environment variables -> new user variable  For other beginners like me, who didn't find any suitable solution for this error, check the node version installed (x32, x64, x86). I have a 64-bit CPU and I've installed x86 node version, which caused the error.  My solution : In my case I add this to my environment variables :  But even if I restart my computer it still does not work. My project folder is in d:\ disk. So I remove my project to c:\ disk and it worked.  My team mate's solution : package.json configuration is worked also.  In my case, I upgraded node.js version to latest (version 12.8.0) and it worked like a charm.  Hello Angela and welcome to SO! Could you maybe specify the exact version of Node.js you updated to for future readers? Thanks!  Didn't think this would work but it actually did! So for anyone reading this and their Node version is old, try upgrading to the latest version ( I went from a 10 version to 14.8), likely it will fix this issue for you. Many thanks  This command works perfectly. I have 8GB ram in my laptop, So I set size=8192. It is all about ram and also you need set file name. I run npm run build command that's why I used build.js.  Are you allocating all the memory available to node.js? I don't know the details of your environment, but you should consider saving some memory for the OS or guest OS and other relevant processes (in case you have some).  @Ricardo Yes, Allocate all memory and you are absolutely right .Btw now I have 32 GB ram.  Upgrade node to the latest version. I was on node 6.6 with this error and upgraded to 8.9.4 and the problem went away.  Just in case it may help people having this issue while using nodejs apps that produce heavy logging, a colleague solved this issue by piping the standard output(s) to a file.  If you are trying to launch not itself, but some other soft, for example you can use the environment variable and package:  For angular project bundling, I've added the below line to my pakage.json file in the scripts section.  In my case I had ran on previous version of node, after some day I upgraded node version and ram for few modules. After this I was getting this error. To fix this problem I deleted node_module folder from each project and ran again.  Hope this might fix the problem.  Note : This was happening on my local machine and it got fixed on local machine only.  If any of the given answers are not working for you, check your installed node if it compatible (i.e 32bit or 64bit) to your system. Usually this type of error occurs because of incompatible node and OS versions and terminal/system will not tell you about that but will keep you giving out of memory error.  If you have limited memory or RAM, then go for the following command.  ng serve --source-map=false  It will be able to launch the application. For my example, it needs 16gb RAM. But I can run with 8gb RAM.  Check that you did not install the 32-bit version of node on a 64-bit machine. If you are running node on a 64-bit or 32-bit machine then the nodejs folder should be located in Program Files and Program Files (x86) respectively.  I had this error on AWS Elastic Beanstalk, upgrading instance type from t3.micro (Free tier) to t3.small fixed the error  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  