 your communities  Find centralized, trusted content and collaborate around the technologies you use most.  Connect and share knowledge within a single location that is structured and easy to search.  I want to trim off '/article/' in path values, so I do this:  Rows 2 and 3 work just fine. But what happened to the 1st row?? It trimmed '/article/ca'. Why did it take 2 more characters?  Now watch what happens when I just trim '/articl':  That works as expected... Now watch what happens when I add one more char in my trim clause, '/article':  Same as the first result! I can't make sense of this. Why is this happening? How do I fix it?  2 Answers 2  removes any character in the first argument from the second argument, so it also removes the and the of "candidate". Instead of , you could use a call:  272k4949 gold badges270270 silver badges306306 bronze badges  2  1  Thank you that also worked. However as I mentioned below, if trim() removes all the characters in the first arg, then why did it only remove the first 'ca' after '/article/'? Why didn't it remove the rest of the characters in the rest of the chars in '/article/'? i.e. 'i' or 'r'.  @KarimShaloh removes the leading (in this case) characters present in the first string from the second string until it encounters a character that isn't in the first string. Here, it stops when it encounters , that isn't in .  Trim removes all signs you mentioned not words/phrases. Instead of trim use replace()  Thank you that worked. However, if trim() removes all the characters mentioned, then why did it only remove the first 'ca' after '/article/'? Why didn't it remove the rest of the characters in the mentioned string? i.e. 'i' or 'r'.  Because 'n' and 'b' are the first characters from the left that are not in the character list '/aceilrt'  @KarimShaloh Btw, a in this case is fine as long those paths have only the at the start. If not, then I you could use regexp_replace with the regex pattern instead.  By clicking “Accept all cookies”, you agree Stack Exchange can store cookies on your device and disclose information in accordance with our Cookie Policy.  