Snuke exists in a two-dimensional plane that is limitless. He'll be gone for N days. He is at home at the start of Day 1. A string S of length N describes his strategy. He will go a positive distance in the following direction on Day i(1iN): If the i-th letter of S is N, it is north; if the i-th letter of S is W, it is west. If the i-th letter of S is S, go south; if the i-th letter of S is E, go east. He hasn't determined how far he'll travel each day. Determine whether each day's travel distance may be adjusted such that he arrives home at the end of Day N. 
Snuke is trapped in an infinite two-dimensional plane. For N days, he'll be gone. Day 1 begins with him at home. His strategy is described by an N-length string S. On Day i(1iN), he will travel a positive distance in the direction: It is north if the first letter of S is N, and west if the first letter is W. If S is the first letter, go south; if E is the first letter, go east. He hasn't decided how far he wants to travel each day. Determine whether the travel distance for each day may be changed so that he returns home on Day N. 
Snuke is stuck in a never-ending two-dimensional plane. He'll be gone for N days. He starts the day at home. An N-length string S describes his strategy. He will go a positive distance in the following direction on Day i(1iN): north if the first letter of S is N, west if the first letter of S is W. Go south if S is the first letter, and east if E is the first letter. He hasn't decided how far each day he wants to travel. Determine whether the daily travel distances may be adjusted so that he arrives home on Day N. 
Snuke exists in an infinite two-dimensional plane. He'll be gone for a total of N days. At the start of Day 1, he is at home. His strategy is described by a string S of length N. On Day i(1iN), he will go a positive distance in the following direction: It is north if the i-th letter of S is N, and west if the i-th letter of S is W. Go south if the i-th letter of S is S; east if the i-th letter of S is E. He has yet to decide how far he will travel each day. Determine whether the travel distance for each day may be changed so that he arrives home on Day N. 
Snuke exists in a two-dimensional plane that is limitless. He'll be gone for N days.  He is at home at the start of Day 1. A string S of length N describes his strategy.  He will go a positive distance in the following direction on Day i(1iN): If the i-th letter of S is N, it is north; if the i-th letter of S is W, it is west. If the i-th letter of S is S, go south; if the i-th letter of S is E, go east. He hasn't determined how far he'll travel each day.  Determine whether each day's travel distance may be adjusted such that he arrives home at the end of Day N. 
